ASP1010-Earth to cosmos - introductory astronomy:This unit gives students theoretical background and practical experience in modern observational astronomy. ASP3231 students study telescope optics, spectroscopy, CCD imaging, image processing, statistics, astronomical distances, stellar evolution, extra-solar planets, neutron stars and galaxies. An observational project, including an astronomical observing session and analysis of the observations, comprises a substantial component of ASP3231.
ASP1022-Life in the universe - astrobiology:Students are required to complete a research project involving original work on a topic chosen in consultation with their academic supervisor.
ASP2011-Astronomy:ASP4110 and ASP4120 together, are equivalent to ASP4100 but they enable students to study part time by allowing completion of the work over a longer time period. Students are required to complete the first part of a research project involving original work on a topic chosen in consultation with their academic supervisor.
ASP2062-Introduction to astrophysics:ASP4110 and ASP4120 together, are equivalent to ASP4100 but they enable students to study part time by allowing completion of the work over a longer time period. Students are required to complete the first part of a research project involving original work on a topic chosen in consultation with their academic supervisor.
ASP3012-Stars and galaxies:ASP4200 is a level four unit in the Honours Program of the Bachelor of Science course. The unit comprises six approved lecture topics which students can choose from those offered in the Honours Handbook of the School of Mathematical Sciences. These provide advanced instruction in Astrophysics and related fields, and support for students wishing to develop a career in research.
ASP3051-Relativity and cosmology:ASP4210 and ASP4220 together, are equivalent to ASP4200 but they enable students to study part time by allowing completion of the work over a longer time period. Students are required to select three sub-units (covering advanced coursework topics) from offerings within the School of Physics and Astronomy. These sub-units are to be selected in consultation with the student's academic supervisor. Some subunits may be chosen from outside the School - with permission from the honours coordinator. Students will also complete a literature review related to the research project component of their honours course.
ASP3162-Computational astrophysics and the extreme universe:ASP4210 and ASP4220 together, are equivalent to ASP4200 but they enable students to study part time by allowing completion of the work over a longer time period. Students are required to select three sub-units (covering advanced coursework topics) from offerings within the School of Physics and Astronomy. These sub-units are to be selected in consultation with the student's academic supervisor. Some subunits may be chosen from outside the School - with permission from the honours coordinator. Students will also complete a literature review related to the research project component of their honours course.
ASP4100-Astrophysics honours research project:The unit provides the opportunity for students to understand the weather and climate of the atmosphere and oceans. Topics discussed include: the characteristics of the atmosphere, radiation and the global energy balance, the greenhouse effect and climate change, the global wind distribution, Hadley circulation, mid-latitude westerlies, global heat balance, geostrophic wind, thermal wind, the oceans circulation and causes and characteristics of climate variability from seasons to ice ages.
ASP4110-Astrophysics honours research project - Part 1:Physical meteorology examines the major physical forces that affect the behaviour of the atmosphere, specifically radiative transfer and precipitation. The radiative transfer section focuses on the scattering, absorption and emission of radiant energy within the atmosphere and how this knowledge is exploited by remote satellite and ground-based instrumentation. The cloud microphysics section focuses on the development of precipitation, as well as the interaction between clouds and aerosols.
ASP4120-Astrophysics honours research project - Part 2:The motion of a density-stratified fluid in a rotating frame of reference; important parameters and their magnitudes; 'homogeneous flows' in the atmosphere and ocean; shallow-water and Rossby-wave motion; western boundary currents; gradient-wind balance and vortex motion; dynamics of stratified fluids, including stability, blocking, internal gravity waves and thermal-wind balance.
ASP4210-Astrophysics honours coursework - Part 1:This unit provides an introduction to spoken and written modern standard Chinese to students with no prior knowledge of Mandarin. An overview of the important sentence structures of modern standard Chinese is begun with equal emphasis on the four skills of reading, writing, listening and speaking. Students will also be introduced to culture and customs as they relate to everyday life.
ASP4220-Astrophysics honours coursework - Part 2:This unit continues the overview of the important sentence structures of modern standard Chinese begun in Chinese Introductory 1. Equal emphasis is placed on the four skills of reading, writing, listening and speaking. Students will continue to be familiarized with Chinese culture and customs as they relate to daily life from a cross-cultural perspective.
ASPHONS-Final grade Astrophysics honours:This unit introduces students to interdisciplinary approaches to addressing the key challenges facing the global community. Students are introduced to historical and contemporary concepts, ideas, and frameworks necessary for critically reflecting on the impact of globalisation across cultures. Key to this reflection will be the development of skills in understanding institutions, cultures and people across a range of local, regional, and global contexts. The unit will enable students to identify, define and describe key global challenges and to apply the interdisciplinary knowledge gained in this unit to critique and construct knowledge in this area.
ATM2020-Climate dynamics of the atmosphere and oceans:This unit is a general introduction to the study of religions, spirituality, and belief and non-belief, in the contemporary world. In particular, it introduces a range of theoretical and methodological approaches, and examines some of the pressing intellectual questions that are raised by (and for) religions, spirituality, belief and non-belief. Issues canvassed include: religion and colonisation; religion and environmental degradation; religion, gender and sexuality; religion and spirituality; religious responses to modernity; and religion, secularisation, and non-belief. The future of religions will also be discussed, in the light of the theories and methods introduced in the unit.
ATM3040-Physical meteorology:This unit introduces students to the history, core teachings and central practices of many of the world's religions: indigenous Australian traditions, Indian religions (Hinduism, Sikhism), Buddhism, Chinese and Japanese religions (Taoism, Confucianism, Shintoism), Judaism, Christianity, Islam, and new religious movements. The unit looks at religions as dynamic, ongoing forces that given meaning and direction to human lives, and that shape the collective experience of human beings in diverse socio-historical settings. The unit does not aim to make judgments about what is right and wrong, but rather sets out to aid the development of knowledge and understanding of the broad sweep of religious traditions.
ATM3050-Dynamical meteorology:The unit draws together students from various levels of musical experience at pre-tertiary level and consolidates fundamental skills in music performance. Students develop instrumental/vocal technical and performance skills that prepare them for the repertoire-based focus of the next unit in the sequence, ATS1045 Performance 2.
ATMHONS-Final grade Atmospheric Science honours:The unit consolidates and extends fundamental skills in music performance developed in ATS1044(Performance 1). Students further develop technical and performance skills by presenting for examination repertoire appropriate to this foundational level of tertiary study. The choice of repertoire should consolidate and go beyond the level of skills attained in ATS1044(Performance 1). This prepares students for the intermediate level of instrumental/vocal technical development required for the next unit in the sequence, ATS2122(Performance 3).
BIO1011-Biology 1:This unit will investigate what's hot in the science of ecology and how we got there by following the history of ecological ideas and the people behind them through to the big questions that remain unanswered in ecology today. The ecological dimensions of space and time will be a common theme running through the unit as we explore the ecology of fitness, interaction networks and the four 'M's - metacommunity ecology, metasystems, metabolic ecology and macroecology. Underpinning all of this will be the recognition of the interplay between ecology and evolution that is blurring the distinction between the two disciplines. Each topic and its core concepts will be covered in lectures and the relevance of these topics to the changing world and to conservation will be discussed. Material presented in lectures will be supported by practical and tutorial sessions. Together we will read and interpret 'hot off the press' ecology research papers, debate controversial topics in the field, delve into live data and design experiments to answer unsolved problems.
BIO1022-Biology 2:This unit investigates how plants and animals respond to their environment. The unit covers a range of biomes including oceans, freshwaters and terrestrial ecosystems and considers the major environmental stresses caused by global change in these systems and how the biota acclimate and adapt to such stresses.
BIO103-Environmental Biology:This unit focuses on the factors influencing the distribution, composition and structure of plant communities from around the world, and the characteristics of the component plant species that enable them to survive in diverse environments. Methods of quantifying community parameters and physiological responses are covered in the practical course. Case studies will focus on Australian species. There is a four-day field excursion during the Easter break (fee payable).
BIO1711-Vertebrate biology:Ecological knowledge needs to be incorporated in many areas of application, including natural resource management, invasive species responses, and biodiversity and conservation. The unit will focus on teaching core skills in applied ecology that should inform any management process. There is less emphasis on policy and legislative issues, except where they directly affect management decisions. The unit will focus on a range of issues that are of current importance in both academic research areas and also in important new policy developments in Victoria and in Australia generally. The practical component will consist of three projects that directly relate to the three lecture units within the unit.
BIO1722-Cell biology:The diversity and biology of Australian vertebrates will be investigated in relation to biogeographical history and ecology of the region. The course examines the biology of Australian vertebrates as examples of the physiological, behavioural and nutritional adaptations that animals around the world develop in response to environmental challenges. Specific topics will include; life history strategies of birds and mammals with particular emphasis on marsupials, clutch size in birds and the relationship to latitude, cooperative breeding in birds, physiological adaptations to temperate and arid conditions, and feeding adaptations in relation to the evolution of dietary resources.
BIO2060-Analytical methods in biology:Students undertaking this unit are provided an opportunity to explore the problems and threats to animal species in the human environment. A series of case studies allow the students to analyse issues raised by agricultural production techniques, the management of pet species, and the significant stress on natural animal populations due to human impacts including climate change and habitat destruction. Students will explore examples of topical issues for a range of animal species and try to develop possible solutions. Students will carry out research and analysis for each of the case studies and present their findings in seminars to their peers and lecturers. Success in the subject will depend on the student's ability to work in groups and individually.
BIO2181-Evolution of plant diversity:This unit introduces students to Environmental Management issues in Southeast Asia, with a necessary emphasis on the philosophies, procedures, processes and examples from Malaysia. Students will gain an understanding of the need for effective Environmental Management, and how local ethics and legislation drive this process. The unit covers fundamental environmental management concepts such as environmental impact assessment, auditing, and monitoring, as well as environmental standards, and valuation methodologies. This theoretical content will then be elaborated and enhanced by introducing students to key environmental issues in tropical Southeast Asia, which will be supported by examples and detailed case studies. Students will engage in interactive tutorial activities that are designed to expand on the content delivered in the lectures. The practical component of the unit comprises a group project, based on a field trip to a local site that is relevant to the key environmental issues introduced in the unit.
BIO2231-Animal diversity:This unit examines the biology of tropical aquatic ecosystems. It focuses on South East Asia, (the Malaysian region in particular) but will also encompass aquatic environments in other parts of the tropics. The ecology and diversity of communities in coral reefs, oceans, sandy and rocky shores, estuaries, lakes, rivers and swamps is examined. The students will gain an understanding of the physical and chemical factors that affect these environments. Conservation and management issues such as the impacts of tourism, pollution, fisheries, wetland drainage and river regulation are studied.
BIO2242-Animal structure and function:This unit covers all major aspects of tropical ecology, explaining why the world's tropics are so rich and diverse in species, what factors contribute to this richness and how the interactions between plants and animals result in such complex relationships. We discuss biodiversity in the tropics, the variety of tropical ecosystems such as rainforests, savannahs, dry forests, montane tropics and peat swamps. The importance of climate, nutrient cycling, disturbance, and forest dynamics on the ecology of tropical plants and animals is a major theme. Conservation and management issues such as conflicting land-use requirements, logging and fire are also investigated in the unit.
BIO23-Basic and Applied Immunology:An individual research project in a discipline relating to a major area of study, conducted under supervision. Includes critical literature review, experimental design and data analysis. Student must maintain regular contact with supervisor(s) and subject coordinator.
BIO25-Microbiology and You:Students undertake a major research project. Under the supervision of an academic in the School of Biological Sciences, students immerse themselves in the literature surrounding their chosen field of research, design novel research projects that will lead to new understanding in the field, and then set about testing these questions. Students will experience working in a lab group environment, working side-by-side with PhD students and professional researchers. Students present the results of their research projects via an oral presentation and written thesis. Candidates may commence the honours year at the beginning of either First or Second Semester (July) (July). Further information is available from the course coordinators and at a meeting held with prospective students during Second Semester (July) of third year.
BIO26-Biochemistry:Students will undertake a supervised research project. Students will carry out a research project and present the results of their study in both written and oral form. Information about research projects will be available from the course coordinator towards the end of the preceding semester.
BIO27-Histology Theory and Applications:Students undertake advanced coursework in their chosen area of Biology (including Genetics) to develop skills in research design, data analysis and presentation, and critical analysis. Students also develop professional skills that are relevant within and outside of academia. Coursework comprises workshops, seminars and research colloquia which is supported through independent learning activities and mentoring from research supervisors. Candidates may commence the honours year at the beginning of either first or Second Semester (July) (July). Further information is available from the course coordinator and at a meeting held with prospective students during Second Semester (July) (July) of level 3.
BIO28-Integrative Physiology:This unit provides advanced instruction in quantitative methods, thesis writing and current topics to students enrolled in the honours program in biology. Students will gain an understanding of advanced experimental design, data analysis and scientific writing that will assist them in completing their honours thesis. Further classes and coursework relating to current topics in biology will assist students in critical analysis of journal articles, providing further support for their academic development in research science.
BMS1011-Biomedical chemistry:This unit is part of the Master of Biomedical and Health Sciences. It aims to develop students' knowledge and understanding of emerging concepts on the function of the cardiovascular system in health and in disease. The pathophysiological changes in disease will be highlighted to provide a contextual basis for discussion of the range of approaches and methods used in cardiovascular science. Students will evaluate and review relevant research literature to further explore specific areas of cardiovascular science from the cellular level though to integrative physiology and pharmacology, including the whole animal, and present and/or critique topical research articles and cardiovascular case studies in both oral and written forms.
BMS1021-Cells, tissues and organisms:This unit will examine case studies of medical biotechnology research and development, and will consider the industry context in which biotechnology is commercialised including: industry structure and competition; methods of financing, management approaches; the regulatory environment; product development and its commercial protection via intellectual property; and taking the product to market. Students will examine case studies to analyse and evaluate the chances of commercialisation success of Australian companies in various phases of development, and present and justify their opinions in the form of class discussions, oral presentations and written business reports.
BMS1031-Medical biophysics:This unit is the research project component of the Master of Biomedical and Health Sciences. The Masters course provides rigorous training and preparation for research. Students will have undertaken rigorous advanced preparatory training prior to commencing this research project unit. Students will undertake a supervised research project involving research of a publishable standard which forms the basis of a thesis presented at the end of the project period. In this unit students will present seminars on their research and are trained in advanced scientific techniques. Students also take part in an oral review of the thesis report.
BMS11-Business Mathematics and Statistics:This unit comprises a major research program including submission of a thesis. The thesis should embody the results of the candidate's investigation, which demonstrates independence of thought and the candidate's ability to carry out research in that discipline. Minor coursework such as a literature review and oral presentation is specified by the enrolling department.
BMS2011-Structure of the human body: An evolutionary and functional perspective:This unit comprises a major research program including submission of a thesis. The thesis should embody the results of the candidate's investigation, which demonstrates independence of thought and the candidate's ability to carry out research in that discipline. Minor coursework such as a literature review and oral presentation is specified by the enrolling department.
BMS2021-Human molecular cell biology:Students will undertake honours level coursework in their relevant discipline, to be advised to the student by the department/school honours coordinator.
BMS2031-Body systems:Students will undertake honours level coursework in their relevant discipline, to be advised to the student by the department/school honours coordinator.
BMS2042-Human genetics:This unit uses chronic disease as the foundation and basis for dietetic students to develop and extend their core dietetic practice skills and build on what they have learnt in BND3102. Students are able to apply their skills within the academic setting in a case based learning approach and via experience in the healthcare setting which includes a 3 week individual case management placement. Students will also extend their foundation skills in evaluating evidence and applied research methods applying to nutrition and dietetic practice. The key themes explored in this unit are: Theme 1: Personal Development and Professional Practice, Theme 3: Fundamentals of Health and Disease coupled with partial integration of content and application from Theme 4: Food from Science to Systems.
BMS2052-Microbes in health and disease:This unit uses chronic disease as the foundation and basis for dietetic students to develop their core dietetic practice assessment skills whilst learning and applying core knowledge of chronic disease related to nutrition and dietetic practice. There is an emphasis and focus on person centred care and simulation provides a key platform for learning in this unit. A formative and summative Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE) sits within this unit to assess students readiness for placement. Students are introduced to the healthcare system and a range of health care settings via a one day/week placement for part of the semester. Food service competencies (Operating Systems and Menu standards) are introduced and integrated practical experiences in the healthcare environment supports learning across this domain. The key themes explored in this unit are Theme 1: Personal Development and Professional Practice, Theme 3: Fundamentals of Health and Disease, Theme 4: Food from Science to Systems coupled with partial integration of content and application from Theme 2: Determinants and Influences on Population Health and Nutrition.
BMS2062-Introduction to bioinformatics:This unit is focussed on extending students' food composition, food therapeutic and food systems knowledge to support dietetic practice with integration and application in the practical and placement setting. There is extension of students' research and problem solving skills in managing placement based food service challenges. Students' personal and professional competencies are further developed. This unit supports fulfilment of prescribed competencies as outlined by the Dieticians Association of Australia. The teaching and learning strategies will encompass lectures, group teaching, tutorials, practical sessions, self-directed learning and a placement based project. The key themes explored in this unit are Theme 4: Food from Science to Systems and Theme 3: Fundamentals of Health and Disease, coupled with partial integration of content and application from Theme 1: Personal Development and Professional Practice and Theme 2: Determinants and Influences on Population Health and Nutrition.
BMS3031-Molecular mechanisms of disease:This unit uses a range of clinical conditions and diseases as the foundation and basis for dietetic students to: + further develop their core dietetic practice skills and + develop skills in dietetic education and case management in the academic setting in preparation for placement. There is an emphasis and focus on person centred care and using simulation and case based learning to provide a key platform for learning in this unit. Preparing students for individual case management clinical placement is a key focus of this unit. Broader issues regarding healthcare systems and healthcare provision, management, ethics in healthcare and quality improvement are covered in this unit. Students' professional competencies are further developed and this unit supports fulfilment of prescribed competencies as outlined by the Dieticians Association of Australia. The key themes explored in this unit are Theme 1: Personal Development and Professional Practice and Theme 3: Fundamentals of Health and Disease, coupled with partial integration of content and application from Theme 4: Food from Science to Systems.
BMS3052-Biomedical basis and epidemiology of human disease:The knowledge areas of the medical treatment domains of clinical dietetics as required by the Dietitians Association of Australia will be taught and practised under supervision in the healthcare setting for acute and chronic conditions. The practical experience of nutrition assessment, including anthropometric, biochemical, clinical, dietary, appetite and gastrointestinal function will be placed in the context of underlying medical conditions, and a nutrition care plan formulated, implemented and evaluated for outcomes. The acute and ambulatory aspects of nutrition care will be studied, and the aspects of team management (nursing, allied health, medicine, social work) are placed in context with the development of communication skills. The student spends most time in the clinical placement setting with clinical education support and supervision. Case based learning will be used in class, co-morbidities examined for prioritisation of nutrition interventions in a problem solving context, and the student incrementally takes more responsibility over the semester for patient care including charting in the medical histories, co-signed by the supervisor. The domains covered in this unit will be the management and dietetic treatment of gastrointestinal and pancreatic disease, liver disease, oncology, renal disease, pulmonary disease, allergy; neurosciences, nutrition support methodologies, intensive care nutrition, surgery, trauma, burns, infectious diseases and acute paediatrics.
BMS3930-Action in biomedical science major research project:This units focuses on the role and management of food service systems, and uses the food service setting as a context for a study of general management principles. The student will gain an understanding of food service systems, and the provision of food services in institutional settings, including purchase of contracted services. The relationship between clinical dietetics and food services, and meeting client needs will be considered. Topics will include human resource management, institutional food and nutritional policy, menu design and assessment, regulatory and accreditation requirements, industrial relations, recruitment and staff management, budgeting and quality management.
BMS3990-Action in biomedical science minor research project:This unit encourages students to discuss and explore personal and professional issues in contemporary dietetic practice. It aims to draw together theoretical foundations of nutrition and dietetics and practical experiences and extend students in entry level competent practice. The unit will challenge students to think critically about their own practice and placement experiences. It will also support them to evaluate and integrate knowledge, skills and attitudes in preparation for entry into the workforce.
BMS4100-Biomedical science research project:This fieldwork will challenge the student to integrate their academic training and to synthesise knowledge into a practical community or public health nutrition project. The unit requires students to participate in the program planning cycle towards addressing a public health or community nutrition issue for the workplace setting. Students will gain confidence by participating in a work environment and provide tangible benefit to their participating setting. Students will gain entry level knowledge in all areas of nutrition and dietetic practice. Principles of information evaluation, workload management, communication, teamwork and responsibility for project management will be developed.
BMS4200-Advanced studies in biomedical science:This unit will be classroom based and develop student's knowledge of the foundations of public health and public health nutrition as a discipline. Students will explore the role of population nutritional intake and its relationship to health and the strategies and approaches at a population level that are effective in improving health, including legislation, policy, social marketing, community development, health education and screening. The focus of content will be on the practical application of the principles, theories and processes used to develop population based approaches to improving health through nutrition, with a focus on capacity building. This unit will prepare students for a practical placement in public health nutrition (BND4092). The key theme explored in this unit is Theme 2: Determinants and influences on population health and nutrition coupled with partial integration of content from Theme 4: Food: from science to systems.
BMS4301-Advanced studies in biomedical science:This unit is predominantly a fieldwork experience that will challenge students to integrate their academic training and to synthesise knowledge into a practical public health nutrition project based in a community setting. The unit requires students to manage a project that addresses a public health nutrition issue. Students will participate in program planning within a work environment and provide tangible benefit to their participating organisation. Students will be responsible for designing a project, collection and analysis of data and synthesis of findings into a report. Principles of information evaluation, workload management, communication, teamwork and responsibility for project management will also be developed. The key theme explored in this unit is Theme 2: Determinants and Influences on Population Health and Nutrition coupled with partial integration of content and application from Theme 1: Personal Development and Professional Practice and Theme 4: Food from Science to Systems.
BMS4302-Biomedical science research project:This unit extends students' integrated knowledge and skills with application to strategic practice problems and scenarios. This unit prepares students to enter the profession and the workforce and completes the final stage of students' research skill development. The key theme in this unit is Theme 1: Personal Development and Professional Practice. As this unit is pulling together many of the final dietetic competencies, there is partial integration of content and application from the other themes, Theme 2: Determinants and Influences on Population Health and Nutrition, Theme 3: Fundamentals of Health and Disease and Theme 4: Food from Science to systems with research underpinning all of these themes.
BMS5001-Introduction to research and research methodology:This unit is predominantly a placement based unit to support students' progression and entry level competencies in individual case management in a healthcare setting. The key themes explored in this unit are Theme 3: Fundamentals of Health and Disease, Theme 1: Personal Development and Professional Practice and Theme 4: Food from Science to Systems as students' progress and integrate their dietetic practice skills and competencies working in the healthcare environment. There is partial integration of content and application from Theme 2: Determinants and Influences on Population Health and Nutrition.
BMS5002-Research skills and techniques:This unit examines how the chemistry of the nervous system influences behaviour, building on prior knowledge of nervous system function. It addresses the nature of neuronal communication and how neurotransmitters interact with receptors to send signals to other brain cells. Emphasis will be placed on the regulation of homeostasis and behaviour by neurochemicals and hormones. The role of glial cells in controlling key metabolic pathways in the brain will also be reviewed. Lastly, this unit will examine how synaptic plasticity and biochemical changes underpin memory formation.
BMS5003-Infectious diseases and population health:Following a brief examination of philosophical views of awareness and consciousness, the neurobiological mechanisms that underlie changes in awareness are examined. The modes of action, brain regions targeted and effects on cognition and behaviour of clinical, prescribed and recreational drugs are discussed. They are compared with other altered states of awareness, in particular circadian rhythms and sleep. The notion that awareness results from the integration of cellular activity in the brain and that subtle changes in this pattern of activity can dramatically alter awareness, cognition and behaviour, is emphasised.
BMS5004-Advanced neuroscience:This unit examines common neurological conditions that result in behavioural dysfunction, and imaging techniques that can assist their diagnosis. The first five weeks examine the applications, limitations and theoretical bases of X-ray imaging, CT, angiography, PET, MRI, FMRI, SPECT, EEG and MEG. The remainder investigates the neurobiological correlates of traumatic brain injury, brain tumours, epilepsies, cerebrovascular disorders, Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease, multiple sclerosis and Fragile X Tremor Ataxia Syndrome (FXTAS). Emphasis will be placed on the impact of these disorders on behaviour and cognition, their diagnosis and treatment, and on aspects of patient care.
BMS5005-Regenerative medicine and stem cells:The aims of the Honours year in behavioural neuroscience are to increase students understanding of theoretical and methodological aspects of research, develop their analytic, research and communication skills, as well as provide students with advanced knowledge in specific areas of the discipline including laboratory techniques and other research-related skills. The unit is also designed to prepare students for higher degree studies. The relatively high weighting of this unit reflects the intensity of taking on a major research project in this field. In this unit students may undertake one major project or two separate, though typically closely-related, research projects in an area within behavioural neuroscience. The project(s) will provide training in both discipline specific and generic research skills and form the basis of an honours research thesis presented at the end of the year.
BMS5006-Cardiovascular biology and disease:The aim of this unit is to provide students with a thorough understanding in statistical concepts to enable them to be informed in their chosen field. The unit begins with a review of univariate statistics and an introduction to the philosophy of research design and analysis. More advanced statistical techniques are then systematically introduced. There is a focus on the understanding of the issues that may arise around the choice of appropriate statistical technique and preparation of data, critiquing decisions made to assist in the interpretation of findings. The content will be set in a context of the needs of professional psychologists and researchers whose interests present unusual methodological demands, which in turn may influence choices in research approach and statistical technique.
BMS5009-Industry and employability training:This unit introduces students to the principles of molecular structure that determine the chemical properties and mechanism of action of therapeutic agents. After examining how the rules of chemical bonding and molecular shape derive from the electronic structure of atoms, the unit will explore how these rules lead to the complex architecture of organic chemistry and to patterns of molecular reactivity. This will involve a discussion of the following topics: + Hydrocarbons (alkanes, alkenes, alkynes) + Haloalkanes + Chirality + Alcohols, ethers and thiols + Aromatic compounds (benzene and its derivatives) Analytical methods (spectrophotometry, NMR and IR spectroscopy) to identify molecules and their structural features will be introduced in theory and practice. In laboratory classes, students will learn how to harness molecular reactivity for the preparation of medicinal compounds using common organic chemical techniques.
BMS5010-Internship in biomedical sciences:This unit will investigate the principles of molecular interactions and reactions that form the basis of biochemical processes and drug action. Building on the concepts of chemical structure and reactivity introduced in Medicinal Chemistry I, this unit will examine the structural and electronic features of the most common organic compound classes (including carboxylic acids and their derivatives, aldehydes, ketones and amines) and how these features define their chemical behaviour. This discussion will be extended to molecules with multiple functional groups, including synthetic polymers and the most important classes of biomolecules (DNA, carbohydrates, lipids and amino acids). In addition, the unit will introduce students to the chemistry of metal complexes (coordination chemistry) and their use as therapeutic agents. Throughout the unit, the patterns of chemical interactions and reactivity emerging from the properties of different compound classes will be applied to the discussion of drug binding, drug action and drug design.
BMS5012-Cancer biology and therapeutics:This unit provides a basic understanding of physical chemistry and together with Physical Chemistry II (BPS1032) provides the conceptual and intellectual foundation for further studies in pharmaceutical science units in 2nd and 3rd year. Students will develop an: (1) Understanding of the physicochemical principles that underpin pharmaceutical chemistry, drug design and formulation design; (2) Ability to undertake calculations concerning the physicochemical properties of pharmaceuticals and aspects of pharmaceutical products; (3) Ability to measure some fundamental properties of pharmaceutical materials through practical exercises;
BMS5100-Research project in biomedical sciences:Solutions, self-assembled systems, multiphase liquid systems and the properties of solids that yield pharmaceutical solutions are key to the performance and manufacture of pharmaceutical products. This unit aims to build on Physical Chemistry I (BPS1031) to provide students with a firm understanding of the physical chemistry that underpins the properties and dissolution of pharmaceutical solids and additives to form solutions. In particular an understanding of the physicochemical properties of pharmaceutical solids (drugs and excipients), their transfer into solution form and properties of those solutions from a pharmaceutical science perspective will set the foundation for students to understand the impact of these properties and concepts in pharmaceutical and other formulated products. The key concepts are related directly to aspects of a suite of representative pharmaceutical products allowing the students to put the concepts into a relevant context. The understanding of these principles will also assist students in their understanding in some areas of chemistry, physiology and biology. This will involve: + physical chemistry of solutions + solids, semisolids and solubility + interfacially active molecules and their use in formulation + acid-base functional groups
BTH1802-Fundamentals of biotechnology:Topics cover both public and private international trade law, including the WTO and dispute settlement within its framework; rights and duties in international sales transactions; legal regimes governing contracts for carriage of goods internationally and the rights and duties arising there under; legal aspects of financing international trade through documentary collections and letters of credit; marine insurance; and international dispute resolution.
BTH2732-Recombinant DNA technology:An introduction to the South African legal system, its history, structure, and the sources of law. We examine the following areas of commercial law: the general law of contract as well as specialised areas of contract law including the law relating to sales, negotiable instruments, property law, agency law and credit law. We also introduce the various forms of business organisations and insolvency law.
BTH2741-Biochemistry:This unit examines business entities law at an advanced level, with emphasis on the law of partnership, company law, the law of close corporations and the law of business trusts. An examination will also be made of the relevant legal aspects relating to corporate governance with specific emphasis on the role and duties of directors. The law pertaining to auditors and their role in a business entity will be examined as will the law relating to financial reporting and the keeping of financial records by business entities.
BTH2752-Cellular metabolism:This unit provides an introduction to the principles and practices of taxation in South Africa. Topics covered include: gross income; special inclusions; exempt income; allowable deductions; special deductions; capital allowances; capital gains tax; value added tax (VAT); and South African tax law. This unit is a requirement for students wanting to register as a Chartered Accountant with the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants (SAICA).
BTH2820-Crop science:The law affecting Australian enterprises engaged in international business. Topics include international trade conventions; import and export procedures; the sale of goods; carriage of goods by sea and air; bills of lading and the Hague-Visby rules; finance of international trade; payment and documentary credits; the use of negotiable instruments in international trade; international commercial arbitration and marine insurance.
BTH2830-Fundamentals of microbiology:In this unit we examine the following areas of commercial law: the law of insolvency, the law of insurance, intellectual property law, labour law (with particular attention to individual contracts of employment, collective bargaining and the right to take industrial action) and the laws that affect money laundering and asset forfeiture and confiscation. We also examine various types of alternative dispute resolution available to businesses seeking to settle disputes by means other than litigation. In all instances we examine the substantive law as well as the impact of these laws on business practices.
BTH3711-Food and industrial microbiology:This unit introduces value added tax (VAT) and includes an examination of the taxation of residents, sole traders, close corporations and companies. It also includes an examination of the tax implications of company distributions and donations. This unit is a requirement for those students following the route to the qualification of Chartered Accountant (South Africa).
BTH3722-Medical microbiology:This unit introduces the accounts of executives, liquidators and trustees and examines how estates are taxed. It also includes an examination of capital gains tax, fringe benefits, retirement benefits, employees' and provisional tax, tax avoidance and administrative procedures, including objection and appeals. This unit is a requirement for those students following the route to the qualification of Chartered Accountant (South Africa).
BTH3732-Environmental microbiology:Topics cover both public and private international trade law, including the WTO and dispute settlement within its framework; rights and duties in international sales transactions; legal regimes governing contracts for carriage of goods internationally and the rights and duties arising there under; legal aspects of financing international trade through documentary collections and letters of credit; marine insurance; and international dispute resolution.
BTH3741-Medical cell biology:This unit introduces the student to the salient features of the Malaysian legal system, the various dispute resolution techniques and examines the main areas of law that regulate the business environment in Malaysia. The focus of learning is on the law of contract, the law of misrepresentation, agency law, partnership law and aspects of company law. Comparative aspects of Australian laws will be highlighted where relevant.
BTH3752-Molecular biology and biotechnology:An introduction to the principles of the taxation of individuals, including an examination of: the basic calculation of income tax; the calculation of gross income; exempt income; allowable deductions; the calculation of net normal tax payable; salaried persons - receipts; fringe benefits; salaried persons -- specific deductions; Standard Income Tax on Employees (SITE); retirement benefits and investment income and royalties; capital gains tax. The basic principles relating to the taxation of farmers is also examined.
BTH3800-Bioinformatics:An introduction to the principles of the taxation of businesses, including an examination of: value-added tax (VAT); capital allowances; business income and expenses; sole traders; partnerships; companies and close corporations; credit agreements and township developers; trust income; capital gains tax; donations tax and administrative procedures.
BTH3820-Plant biotechnology:This unit provides an introduction to the Australian income tax laws applicable to international trade. Topics include basic concepts and principles of Australian income tax law, including residence, source, income, deductions, capital gains tax and taxation of alternative business entities; specific aspects of income taxation law relevant to international trade transactions; and the basic concepts underlying indirect taxation relevant to international trade, including customs duty and sales tax.
BTH3960-Interdisciplinary advanced practical in pharmacology and chemistry:The unit will focus on the law relating to corporate governance in Malaysia. It will begin with the need for good corporate governance in Malaysia and the factors that are involved in ensuring good corporate governance. It will focus on directors' duties and the need for the board to be independent of majority shareholders and their nominated directors and on the role that auditors and shareholders play in ensuring good corporate governance practices. The unit will also include the disclosure obligations of companies and how these rules are currently enforced. In all instances the essential elements of the law is examined, as are the implications of each law on business practice.
BTH4100-Biotechnology research project:Topics include the Corporations Act scheme; the role and functions of the Australian Securities and Investments Commission; the concept of limited liability; the effect of registration; the corporate constitution; the company's relationship with outsiders; share and loan capital; regulation of public fund raising; duties of directors, officers and promoters; rights of members and minority shareholder protection; forms of corporate insolvency administrations, particularly as they affect creditors, officers and shareholders.
BTH4200-The practice of biotechnology:The unit introduces students to the legal framework within which individual employment relations operate in Malaysia and Australia. Topics include important workplace relations issues like the rights and duties underpinning the contract of employment, unfair dismissal, constructive dismissal, discrimination and occupational health and safety law. Selected International Labour Organisation Conventions are analysed in relation to aspects of current employment protection law and policy.
BTH4280-Honours coursework in biotechnology:The Unit will focus on the law relating to corporate governance in Malaysia. It will begin with the need for good corporate governance in Malaysia and the factors that are involved in ensuring good corporate governance. It will focus on directors duties and the need for the board to be independent of majority shareholders and their nominated directors and on the role that auditors and shareholders play in ensuring good corporate governance practices. The Unit will also include the disclosure obligations of companies and how these rules are currently enforced. In all instances the essential elements of the law is examined, as are the implications of each law on business practice.
BTHGC2732-Recombinant DNA technology:The unit will explore current corporate governance issues in Malaysia and selected Asian developing countries and will involve a comparative study of how developed jurisdictions (Australia, UK, US and Singapore) have resolved these issues. The focus is on issues the role of the board of directors, auditors, shareholders and whistleblowers. The unit will highlight problems and resolutions to improve corporate governance in Malaysia.
BTHGC2741-Biochemistry:The topics are similar to those covered by the equivalent Australian income tax law unit BTC3150, but lectures and tutorials will concentrate on the legislation and case law which applies in Malaysia. Topics include background to the Malaysian legal and taxation systems; income for businesses, individuals, companies, partnerships and trusts; deductions; capital allowances (the Malaysian equivalent of depreciation); personal reliefs; tax incentives; the limited capital gains tax; tax administration and tax avoidance.
BTHGC2752-Cellular metabolism:The law affecting Australian enterprises engaged in international business. Topics include international trade conventions; import and export procedures; the sale of goods; carriage of goods by sea and air; bills of lading and the Hague-Visby rules; finance of international trade; payment and documentary credits; the use of negotiable instruments in international trade; international commercial arbitration and marine insurance.
BTHGC3711-Food & Industrial microbiology:This unit provides an introduction to Australian income tax law and practice. Topics include: Australian tax jurisdictional issues, assessable income from personal exertion, property and business, capital gains tax and fringe benefits tax, exempt income, deductions, both general and specific, GST, individual offsets.
BTHGC3722-Medical microbiology:This unit covers the main areas of conventional and Islamic financial regulations. This includes aspects of the legal environment that affect financial decisions, transactions and relationships in both conventional and Islamic finance. Topics covered are chosen from the laws regulating the financing implications of different forms of business organisation; financial institutions and the financial institutions/customer relationship; cheques; the laws regulating business finance and security and guarantees.
BTHGC3732-Environmental microbiology:Legal implications of staff management decisions, individual employer-employee relationship, contract of employment, termination law including unfair dismissals, health and safety law in the workplace, vicarious liability agreements, awards and industrial action, constitutional considerations and discrimination law.
BTHGC3741-Medical cell biology:Aspects of the legal environment that affects financial decisions, transactions and relationships. Topics covered are chosen from the laws regulating the financing implications of different forms of business organisation; financial institutions; cheques, banking and the banker-customer relationship; electronic funds transfer; other negotiable instruments; the laws regulating business finance and security; hire-purchase and consumer credit; guarantees; bankruptcy and insolvency law, and debt recovery.
BTHGC3752-Molecular biology & Biotechnology:This unit involves a study of the legal framework which operates in relation to marketing decisions and practice. It examines the impact of common law, legislation and self-regulating codes of practice in the market place. Particular topics covered include intellectual property rights, product development and promotion, product safety and quality, the regulation of unfair and anti-competitive conduct and electronic marketing and the law.
BTHHONS-Final grade Biotechnology honours:An introduction to the principles of estate duty and planning. An examination of the administration of deceased estates and insolvent estates including the following: Principles of testate and intestate succession, role of the Master of the High Court, executor's role and the executor's account, application for sequestration and acts of insolvency, consequences of sequestration, role of the trustee, trustee's accounts, preferential creditors, encumbered assets, contribution, claim withdrawal, composition, insolvent deceased estates and partnerships, grounds for and methods of winding-up companies and close corporations, judicial management and rehabilitation.
CHE2161-Mechanics of fluids:Steam systems: Heaters, traps, boilers, steam and gas turbines, distribution. Top level analysis: Path analysis; efficiency of heat flow paths; application to title site retrofit; Site composite curves: Total site source/sink profiles; site composite and utility grand composite curves. Retrofit: Analysis and optimisation of utility systems; steam level switching. Optimising steam levels: Minimising fuel consumption and operating costs. Gas turbine integration: Heat recovery systems. Refrigeration systems: Compression and absorption refrigeration; energy analysis for low temperature systems. Selection of drivers for process equipment. Site heat-to-power ratio.
CHE2162-Material and energy balances:Choice of reactor: reaction paths; types of reaction systems; conversion, selectivity and reactor yield; simultaneous reaction and separation: Modelling of and design for multiphase reactors. Choice of separator: separation of heterogeneous and homogeneous mixtures. Design and optimisation of distillation columns: Short-cut methods; reflux ratio and feed conditions. Synthesis of reaction-separation systems; Generating alternative flowsheets; recycle structure. Reactive distillation: Shifting equilibrium; Damkohler number. Economic trade-offs: Evaluating alternative flow sheets; optimisation of reactor conversion and selectivity.
CHE2163-Heat and mass transfer:Distillation system design: column sequencing. Complex distillation columns: decomposition techniques. Thermodynamic analysis of distillation columns; modifying columns using thermodynamic analysis. Crude oil distillation design: modelling crude oil mixtures. Retrofit design of distillation systems: aims of de-bottlenecking. Azeotropic distillation problem representation for ternary mixtures; residue curves; distillation lines and pinch point curves. Composition profiles; total reflux; feasible composition profiles. Distillation sequence synthesis: conditions of feasible separations; entrainer selection; synthesising complex distillation columns.
CHE2164-Thermodynamics I:Basic model building in mathematical programming. Unconstrained optimisation. Analytical and iterative methods. Constrained optimisation of continuous systems. Optimisation theory and basic algorithms. Discrete and integer aspects in optimisation. Branch and bound methods. Superstructure approach for process design. Applications of optimisation in process integration.
CHE2166-Introduction to process simulation:Waste minimisation: Source of aqueous waste in the process industries; reducing waste from reactors, separations and purge streams; process operations as a source of waste; minimising waste from process operations. Wastewater minimisation: Reducing wastewater through water reuse, recycling and regeneration; targets for minimum flow rate and design to meet targets for single constraints; multiple sources of water; flow rate constraints; multiple contaminants; changing the process to reduce wastewater production. Effluent treatment system design: Treatment processes; targets for minimum treatment flow rate and design for single contaminants; waste minimisation versus treatment.
CHE2167-Process material selection:Introduction: Types of gaseous emissions; environmental problems. VOC emissions: condensation; absorption; adsorption; incineration; biofiltration for abatement; odour control. Acid gases: absorption-stripping processes; simulation of absorption-stripping processes; design of split-loop processes; H2S removal; sulphur recovery; CO2 removal; NOx removal. Flue gas emissions minimisation: targeting flue gas emissions; role of heat integration; fuel switch; utility and process changes; site-wide approaches.
CHE2871-Biochemistry for engineers:Operability of continuous processes: variation in operating conditions; use of probability functions; multiple operating cases: overdesign, additional units and intermediate storage for operability. Batch processes: batch and semicontinuous operations; Gantt charts; overlapping batches. Introduction to process control: process requirements; external disturbances; stability of the process. Control configurations: feedback, inferential, cascade, feedforward and ratio control. Control of unit operations: level, flow, pressure, heat exchanger, distillation and reactor control. Control of complete processes: systems of interacting units; intermediate storage. Safety.
CHE3161-Chemistry and chemical thermodynamics:Cleaner production principles: the politics and economics of cleaner production. Strategies for implementing cleaner production: environmental management systems; environmental reporting. Cleaner production methodologies: detailed process analysis; life cycle assessment; process integration; waste minimisation. Case studies: Specific examples from industry where the methods of cleaner production have been applied.
CHE3162-Process control:Specific projects will range widely and be designed to address extensive industry-type problems. The specific problems will vary from year to year. Examples of the type of design projects that might be considered include: design of a refinery heat recovery network rising commercial software; isopropyl alcohol production via direct hydration of propylene; separation of the isopropyl alcohol-water azeotropic by distillation; uprating the capacity of an ammonia liquor plant; heat-exchanger network synthesis using mathematical programming approaches; design of an operable heat exchanger network; design of a site utility and fuel system.
CHE3163-Sustainable processing I:Specific projects will range widely and be designed to address extensive industry-type problems. The specific problems will vary from year to year. Examples of the type of design projects that might be considered include: design of a refinery heat recovery network rising commercial software; isopropyl alcohol production via direct hydration of propylene; separation of the isopropyl alcohol-water azeotropic by distillation; uprating the capacity of an ammonia liquor plant; heat-exchanger network synthesis using mathematical programming approaches; design of an operable heat exchanger network; design of a site utility and fuel system.
CHE3164-Reaction engineering:Specific projects will range widely and be designed to address extensive industry-type problems. The specific problems will vary from year to year. Examples of the type of design projects that might be considered include: design of a refinery heat recovery network rising commercial software; isopropyl alcohol production via direct hydration of propylene; separation of the isopropyl alcohol-water azeotropic by distillation; uprating the capacity of an ammonia liquor plant; heat-exchanger network synthesis using mathematical programming approaches; design of an operable heat exchanger network; design of a site utility and fuel system.
CHE3165-Separation processes:Specific projects will range widely and be designed to address extensive industry-type problems. The specific problems will vary from year to year. Examples of the type of design projects that might be considered include: design of a refinery heat recovery network rising commercial software; isopropyl alcohol production via direct hydration of propylene; separation of the isopropyl alcohol-water azeotropic by distillation; uprating the capacity of an ammonia liquor plant; heat-exchanger network synthesis using mathematical programming approaches; design of an operable heat exchanger network; design of a site utility and fuel system.
CHE3166-Process design:Toxic hazards; release modelling; fire and explosion; pressure relief systems; reactor safety; storage; hazard identification; risk assessment.
CHE3171-Bioprocess technology:This unit equips students to evaluate the availability of biomass for specific biorefinery or pulp and paper projects and the potential impact of the political and social climate. It will study available forest and other biomass resources and their harvesting, state and federal legislation regarding their use and social attitudes towards the utilization of biomass. This unit will also study the structure and chemistry of relevant biomass raw materials and the current and past structure of the biorefining and pulp and paper industries, and will provide a brief overview of biorefining and pulp and paper processes.
CHE3172-Nanotechnology and materials 1:This unit will equip students with the ability to evaluate new developments in pulping and bleaching from an engineering perspective, to analyse the performance of current operations and to determine the cause of process malfunctions. To achieve these aims, this unit will examine the chemical engineering aspects of mechanical, chemical and other pulping processes; the various mechanical pulping processes (groundwood, RMP and TMP); the traditional kraft pulping process, the equipment, instruments and process models for this process and process control; modern variants of the kraft pulping process; the kraft recovery process; NSSC pulping; chemi-mechanical pulping processes; other minor pulping processes. Bleaching processes include: traditional bleaching, elemental chlorine free processes i.e. chlorine dioxide bleaching and total chlorine free processes including oxygen, hydrogen peroxide and ozone bleaching. Processes for brightening mechanical pulps will be included.
CHE4161-Engineer in society:This unit will equip students with the ability to evaluate new developments in biorefining, and pulping and bleaching from an chemistry perspective, and to analyse the chemistry of current operations. This will require the development of detailed knowledge and understanding of the chemistry of cellulose, of the various lignins and hemicelluloses and of wood extractives. This unit will examine the detailed chemistry of the various chemical pulping, bleaching and recovery processes, of the production of byproducts from pulping and bleaching operations, of the production of energy from biomass and the production of specialty chemicals and materials from biomass. It will also study the detailed chemistry of the interaction between fibres and 'wet-end' chemicals in an aqueous environment.
CHE4162-Particle technology:This unit will equip students with the ability to evaluate new developments in papermaking, to analyse the performance of current operations, to determine the cause of process malfunctions in papermaking operations and to conduct efficient trials with a view to improving current operations. It will investigate the engineering and science of unit operations involved in the production of paper from fibres; refining of chemical pulps; the paper machine approach systems; headbox design and performance; dewatering and network formation in the forming section; wet-end additives and wet-end systems; water removal and web modification in the press and dryer sections; property enhancement by calendering and by the addition of material at the size press and coater; and winding and finishing operations. It will examine the equipment used for each operation, the functioning of this equipment and the impact of each operation on the properties of the paper or board being produced.
CHE4164-Integrated industrial project:This unit will equip students with the ability to evaluate new developments in our understanding of the properties of paper, to identify and analyse opportunities for the enhancement of paper properties or the production of new grades of paper, to understand the influence of raw materials, process conditions and assessment procedures on the measured properties of paper so that the causes of loss of properties can be determined, and to evaluate the reasons for customer dissatisfaction with the performance of specific deliveries of paper. This will require knowledge of the various categories of paper and their performance requirements, a detailed understanding of the dimensional, mechanical, optical and surface properties of paper and the influence of raw materials and process conditions on these properties, and an understanding of the relationship between the properties of paper which can be determined in the laboratory and the paper's conversion and end-use performance. It will also require detailed knowledge of the effect of relative humidity on the moisture content of paper and of moisture content on the properties of the paper, and an understanding of the consolidation of the paper web during the forming process.
CHE4170-Design project:This unit will equip students with the ability to evaluate the influence of process control equipment on biorefinery and pulp and paper processes, to identify requirements for improved performance from control equipment and mill wide systems, to analyse the value of new developments in process control, to evaluate energy and water management systems and their current performance, to critically assess quality control systems being used and to make recommendations for improvement and to design and analyse process trials. We will examine the fundamentals and practical aspects of process control in biomass conversion processes, digital automation systems, millwide control, statistical control, predictive systems and specific equipment and systems used in biorefineries and pulp and paper mills. We will study the evaluation of energy and water utilization and systems for their management , the fundamentals of statistics and their application to process evaluation and trials, and the various aspects of quality control in papermaking.
CHE4171-Biochemical engineering:This unit will equip students with the ability to supervise the measurement and control of emissions and the meeting of emission targets, to evaluate new developments in the control of emissions in biorefining, pulping, bleaching and papermaking operations and to make appropriate and innovative recommendations, to identify opportunities for reducing emissions from processes, to undertake a lifecycle analysis with full understanding of the assumptions made and their significance and to assess the impact of carbon dioxide reduction legislation and make appropriate recommendations for process improvement. This unit will examine the practical and fundamental aspects of processes for controlling solid, liquid and gaseous emissions from biomass processing plants. It will provide an understanding of legislation which affects environmental impact issues. It will study processes for the minimsation of energy and water usage and legislation and issues related to minimization of carbon dioxide emissions and carbon trading.
CHE4172-Nanotechnology and materials 2:This unit will equip students with the ability to evaluate new developments in the recycling of paper, and in the pumping of fibre suspensions, to evaluate the implications for the availability and use of recycled fibre of changes in patterns of collection and usage and of new legislation on recycling and to analyse the implications of flocculation for processing. This unit will examine the statistics and trends in collection and use of recycled fibre, the effects of recycling on the properties of the fibres, the flocculation of suspensions of fibres from hardwoods and softwoods and various pulping processes, factors influencing the pumping of fibre suspensions, removal of contaminants from recovered paper and virgin fibre using hydrocyclones and screens and the de-inking and brightening of recovered paper.
CHE4173-Sustainable processing 2:An examination of the fundamental engineering and scientific elements involved in the processing of biomass in biorefineries including reaction engineering, biotechnology and separation processes.
CHE4180-Chemical engineering project:An examination of the chemical engineering aspects of current biomass conversion operations, biomass resources, products from biomass conversion, practical engineering aspects of biorefinery processes and the economic and social aspects of the operation of biorefineries.
CHE5167-Pulp and paper laboratory:The unit will develop a higher level understanding of reaction kinetics, catalysis and reactor design, including: + isothermal and non-isothermal reactor design - steady and unsteady states + reactor safety and reactive hazards + heterogeneous and biocatalysis + diffusion effects in catalytic reactions + residence time distribution + non-ideal reactor design and operation + density functional theory in catalysis + reactor design strategy for different industries including CO2 utilization + reactor design for different industries - chemical, minerals, environmental, biological and food processing
CHE5171-Modelling:The unit covers biomass reaction engineering including kinetics, reaction/mass transfer limitations, selectivity, improving reaction rates, and homogeneous and heterogeneous catalysis. The role of biotechnology including enzymatic reactions, fermentation, selectivity will also be studied together with common separation liquid and liquid-solid separation processes. Global concepts relevant to biorefineries will be emphasised including the carbon cycle (micro and macro perspectives), overall sustainability of water, energy, and minimising by-products from biorefineries.
CHE5172-Energy systems:This unit covers the applications of nanostructured membranes in the field of chemical engineering, including the introduction of fabrication techniques, functionalization of nanostructured membranes and membrane properties. Emphasis is placed on the importance of nanostructured membranes in improving energy efficiency and reducing environmental impact in various separation and energy production processes.
CHE5173-Cogeneration and site utility systems:The unit will cover the purpose and methods of modelling chemical and biochemical processes. It includes the development of constitutive relations, model building, evaluation and sensitivity analysis. Numerical techniques will include the solution of systems of linear, non-linear and algebraic equations. Models are subjected to optimisation. The basic principles of optimisation including the types of variables, linear and non-linear models, constraints and objective functions will be covered. Various optimisation algorithms for linear, non-linear problems and mixed integer problems are presented in the context of chemical process design. Multi-objective optimisation is used to explore trade-offs involved with sustainable process development.
CHE5174-Synthesis of reactor-separation systems:This unit introduces the concept of sustainable development in engineering, involving environmental, economic and social considerations in the planning, development of a new product and implementation of a new or existing process. This unit also ventures into systematic approaches to design sustainable processes and products by conducting life cycle assessment, risk assessments and cost analysis. These themes will be developed in lectures, problem based sessions and supported by an individual student project work related to selected industrial processes or products.
CHE5175-Advanced distillation design:The unit will develop a higher level understanding of reaction kinetics, catalysis and reactor design, including: + isothermal and non-isothermal reactor design - steady and unsteady states + reactor safety and reactive hazards + heterogeneous and biocatalysis + diffusion effects in catalytic reactions + residence time distribution + non-ideal reactor design and operation + density functional theory in catalysis + reactor design strategy for different industries including CO2 utilization + reactor design for different industries - chemical, minerals, environmental, biological and food processing
CHE5176-Optimisation:The unit covers biomass reaction engineering including kinetics, reaction/mass transfer limitations, selectivity, improving reaction rates, and homogeneous and heterogeneous catalysis. The role of biotechnology including enzymatic reactions, fermentation, selectivity will also be studied together with common separation liquid and liquid-solid separation processes. Global concepts relevant to biorefineries will be emphasised including the carbon cycle (micro and macro perspectives), overall sustainability of water, energy, and minimising by-products from biorefineries.
CHE5177-Environmental design for aqueous emissions:This unit covers the applications of nanostructured membranes in the field of chemical engineering, including the introduction of fabrication techniques, functionalization of nanostructured membranes and membrane properties. Emphasis is placed on the importance of nanostructured membranes in improving energy efficiency and reducing environmental impact in various separation and energy production processes.
CHE5178-Design for gaseous emissions:The unit will cover the purpose and methods of modelling chemical and biochemical processes. It includes the development of constitutive relations, model building, evaluation and sensitivity analysis. Numerical techniques will include the solution of systems of linear, non-linear and algebraic equations. Models are subjected to optimisation. The basic principles of optimisation including the types of variables, linear and non-linear models, constraints and objective functions will be covered. Various optimisation algorithms for linear, non-linear problems and mixed integer problems are presented in the context of chemical process design. Multi-objective optimisation is used to explore trade-offs involved with sustainable process development.
CHE5179-Control, operations and safety:This unit introduces the concept of sustainable development in engineering, involving environmental, economic and social considerations in the planning, development of a new product and implementation of a new or existing process. This unit also ventures into systematic approaches to design sustainable processes and products by conducting life cycle assessment, risk assessments and cost analysis. These themes will be developed in lectures, problem based sessions and supported by an individual student project work related to selected industrial processes or products.
CHE5181B-Design project B:CHM1011 has been designed such that some previous understanding of chemistry is presumed, but is also underpinned by a support structure for those who are relatively new to the subject. The curriculum focuses on general and physical chemistry principles which in turn complements the synthetic chemistry topics discussed in the subsequent unit, CHM1022. On completion of CHM1011, students will have gained an understanding of how atoms and molecules interact with each other and how this affects their bonding, reactivity, 3D structure and physical properties. A number of important topics such as stoichiometry, intermolecular forces, thermodynamics, kinetics, equilibria, and electrochemistry will be developed in order to prepare students for a deeper exploration of chemistry. The concepts developed within the workshops and tutorials are complemented through a laboratory program where students will have the opportunity to develop analytical techniques and design their own experiments to solve a range of chemical problems.
CHE5181C-Design project C:Within CHM1022, students will exploit their understanding of general and physical chemistry discussed in CHM1011 to explore the behaviour of chemicals in a number of interesting case studies incorporating a range of significant biological and synthetic molecules such as carbohydrates, proteins and polymers and pharmaceutically important drugs. Along the way, students will discuss the formation of inorganic coordination compounds and investigate their role in colour and magnetism, and metals in biological systems. The concepts developed within the workshops and tutorials are complemented through a laboratory program where students will have the opportunity to develop analytical techniques and design their own experiments to solve a range of chemical problems.
CHE5181D-Design project D:CHM1051 has been designed for students who have demonstrated a strong aptitude for chemistry during secondary studies, eg. a VCE Chemistry Study Score >=37. On completion of this unit, students will have gained an understanding of how atoms and molecules interact with each other and how this affects their bonding, reactivity, 3D structure and physical properties. A number of important topics such as stoichiometry, intermolecular forces, thermodynamics, kinetics, equilibria, and electrochemistry will be developed in order to prepare students for a deeper exploration of chemistry. The concepts developed within the lectures and workshops are complemented through an extended laboratory program where students will have the opportunity to develop analytical techniques and design their own experiments to solve a range of chemical problems.
CHE5182-Chemical process safety:CHM1052 has been designed for students who have demonstrated a strong aptitude for chemistry during secondary studies, eg. a VCE Chemistry Study Score >=37. In this unit, students will exploit their understanding of general and physical chemistry discussed in CHM1051 to explore the behaviour of chemicals in a number of interesting case studies incorporating a range of significant biological and synthetic molecules such as carbohydrates, proteins and polymers and pharmaceutically important drugs. Along the way, students will discuss the formation of inorganic coordination compounds and investigate their role in colour and magnetism, and metals in biological systems. The concepts developed within the lectures are complemented through an extended laboratory program where students will have the opportunity to develop analytical techniques and design their own experiments to solve a range of chemical problems.
CHE5183-Process modelling and optimisation:In this unit students will explore aspects of organic, inorganic and physical chemistry. The structures, properties and common reactions of classes of organic compounds will be investigated along with the structures and reactivities of coordination complexes. Aspects of physical chemistry including thermodynamics, kinetics and solution equilibria and electrochemistry will be studied in some detail. The interrelationship of these topics will be explored ultimately leading to the ability to predict reaction directionality in different reactions.
CHE5290-Biomass resource and its utilisation:This unit presents a broad overview of the origins of the environmental pollution problems by studying the sources, reactions, transport, effects and fate of chemical species in the water, soil and air environments. Specifically it will study the influence of human activity upon these processes and provide relevant practical introduction to the basic analytical techniques employed for environmental chemical analysis.
CHE5291-Engineering aspects of biomass pulping:Basic principles and key aspects of molecular design, synthesis, structure and reactivity of carbon based molecules, organo-transition metal chemistry and metal complexes with examples taken from important biological, industrial and environmental processes. It will cover aspects of reactive intermediates; carbocations; molecular rearrangements; nucleophilic substitution; elimination reactions; free radicals; aromatic and heterocyclic chemistry; pericyclic reactions; carbonyl compounds; key principles of coordination chemistry including geometry, properties, bonding and stability in transition metal complexes; metal coordination environments in nature; principles of organometallic chemistry and catalysis.
CHE5292-Chemistry of biomass processing:This unit covers the theory and instrumentation behind common physical and analytical instrumental techniques such as infra-red, Raman, UV/Vis absorption and fluorescence and atomic spectroscopies, mass spectrometry, chromatography and electroanalytical chemistry. A knowledge of the physical chemistry of gases and liquids is an important precursor to the understanding of chromatographic and electroanalytical chemistry. The application of these techniques in forensic analysis is examined using examples such as the detection of accelerants at arson scenes, drug detection in sport and identification of microsamples at crime scenes. Practical exercises will provide problem solving in physical and forensic analytical chemistry. A "Moot Court" team exercise and guest lecturers are an integral part of the subject.
CHE5293-Processing fibres into paper:CHM2942 has been designed for students from chemical and biological backgrounds who have a strong, common interest in the chemistry of living systems. In this unit students will be able to apply their knowledge by examining chemical processes in a biological context: the relationship between stereochemistry and biological activity; transition states of enzyme catalysed reactions; molecular mechanisms underlying glycoside bond formation and breakage; describe the chemical reactivity of organic and inorganic molecules and the reactions occurring at different functional groups; develop a basic understanding of bio-conjugate chemistry and its applications; classical and contemporary bioinorganic chemistry of metals; metal coordination chemistry; molecular mechanisms for redox potentials within living systems; metalloproteins and co-enzymes; transport and storage of naturally occurring and toxic metals; role of metals in medicine; applications of modern bio-spectroscopic and bio-imaging techniques; visualisation and monitoring of chemical processes occurring in living tissues; processing bio-imaging and bio-spectroscopic data.
CHE5294-Performance of paper products:A fundamental understanding of the principles underlying aquatic chemistry and their application in the study of aquatic processes. Includes: equilibria, activity and solubility; acid-base and carbonate equilibria, coordination chemistry and complexation, trace metal speciation, aquatic colloid and surface chemistry, estuarine processes and lake biogeochemistry, physico-chemical features of estuaries, rivers and lakes, light and heat in aquatic systems, major ions in natural waters, redox equilibria, dissolved gases, biogeochemical cycling of nutrients and contaminants, eutrophication. The practical component covers common major analytical techniques and two field excursions.
CHE5295-Control of processes and quality:A detailed account of the chemistry of food substances will be provided. The components present in larger amounts (carbohydrates, fats, proteins, minerals and water), and those occurring in smaller quantities (colours, flavours, vitamins, preservatives, trace metals, both natural and synthetic toxins, and additives) will be discussed. Chemicals used in food production (fertilizers, pesticides, insecticides, fungicides, herbicides) and the chemistry of food processing, storage and cooking are also discussed. Methods used in food analysis are considered. The chemistry of the digestion of food and the energy provided by food during consumption are included.
CHE5296-Minimising environmental impact:This course allows students to undertake an introductory research project as part of their second year of study in Chemistry within the BSc Adv (Hons) or BSc (Science Scholar) degrees and students undertaking CHM1051 and CHM1052 with a minimum of a distinction grade for both units. The project will be carried out within the School of Chemistry teaching and research laboratories. Allied with the practical work will be tutorial materials and discussion on formal matters relating to OH&S, database searching, data analysis and presentation and report presentation.
CHE5297-Recycling and contaminant removal:The unit describes the structure, properties and synthesis of biomaterials, macromolecules, and 'smart' inorganic materials, which are designed to carry out a range of sensing or active functions. Includes: biopolymers and biomineralisation in plants and animals; mimicry of biological systems; properties of everyday materials such as polypropylene and polyurethane and the link between their properties, structure and synthesis; properties of inorganic and metal-organic solids such as conductivity, magnetism, and porosity; theory and use of X-ray crystallography for determining solid-state structures. Principles of controlled radical polymerisation such as RAFT that is widely used in industry to synthesize polymers of certain molecular weights are introduced. In addition, ionic liquids as 'new generation' liquid materials are introduced. The unit also offers an opportunity to learn about a fast emerging field of alternative resources of energy such as solar cells, advanced batteries and fuel cells.
CHE5298-Biorefinery foundations:In this unit, the fundamental principles and concepts of chemistry studied in previous years will be related to the aquatic and atmospheric systems. The chemical processes which occur in natural and modified systems will be examined with a particular view of understanding the nature, effects and fate of pollutants. This provides students with the background to understand current issues such as air and water pollution, the enhanced greenhouse effect and stratospheric ozone depletion. Some emphasis will be placed on the analysis of air and water, and water treatment processes will be investigated for both the production of potable water as well as treatment of polluted waters.
CHE5299-Biorefinery processes:Physical chemistry provides insight into the fundamental reason that chemical systems and materials behave the way they do. This unit gives students an advanced understanding of the properties and characteristics of solids, liquids and gases from a fundamental level - utilising computation of individual atoms and bonds - right through to applied systems such as colloids and surfactants, relevant to minerals, food and formulation. The course follows a natural progression from atomic and molecular properties at a single atom or bond level through key thermodynamics to the properties of chemical systems, such as viscosity, phase behaviour and the interactions between solids and liquids. The final section deals with surfaces and colloids - key to understanding important chemical systems in Australian science and industry, due to their ubiquity in minerals processing, food and dairy industries, energy and oil, pharmaceuticals, water and waste processing.
CHE5881-Advanced reaction engineering:A description of the advanced tools and methodologies that are used in the determination of reaction mechanisms will be provided. This is supported by a discussion of the theoretical basis of the design of synthetic pathways for target e.g. bioactive molecules. The knowledge gained will be used to elucidate the reaction mechanisms of common organic reactions and metal-mediated reactions towards identifying scope in organic chemistry. The development of chemical methods that allow realisation of the concept of a sustainable future will also be discussed. Advanced NMR spectroscopy will also be introduced as a useful tool to elucidating structure.
CHE5882-Biomass and biorefineries:This unit focuses on several major classes of biologically and clinically important therapeutic agents. Students will study the traditional use, isolation, structural characterisation, synthesis and clinical evaluation of drugs and also be exposed to newer crystallographic, computational, combinatorial and screening methodology used in drug design and development. The subject will consist of three inter-related sections: a) drug discovery and development, b) molecular recognition, and c) chemistry and the synthesis of biological polymers. Where appropriate, guest speakers from industry and government agencies will contribute to the subject.
CHE5883-Nanostructured membranes for separation and energy production:A general description of the synthetic methods and characterization techniques that are used to prepare coordination complexes and organometallic compounds will be provided together with the tools and methodologies used in the determination of reaction mechanisms and, in particular, metal centred/mediated reactions. Techniques commonly used to study the structure and properties of inorganic complexes will be introduced through the practical classes and a problem based approach.
CHE5884-Process modelling and optimisation:Advances in analytical science will involve the development and exploitation of advanced mass spectrometric, molecular spectroscopic and separation techniques. This unit concentrates on these approaches, and provides examples of how they can be applied in areas such as forensic and environmental science, genomics and forensic imaging. The remainder of the unit covers the use of spectroscopic, radiometric, separation and particle characterization techniques in automated monitoring and process analysis in a variety of industrial, clinical and environmental applications. Aspects of instrumentation, data processing and chemometrics will be emphasised in each analytical technique discussed.
CHE5885-Principles and practices for sustainable development:The three major components of the environment, air, soil and water, are considered. Environmental issues related to energy are outlined. Soils: natural, constituents, properties; chemical processes; organic matter; fertility; acidity; salinity; remediation. Water: major components; nutrient pollution including consequences and tracing methods; water treatment including sewage treatment, drinking water treatment and artificial wetlands. Air and energy: importance to society; fossil fuel use; combating atmospheric problems associated with fossil fuel use; alternative fuels, including biofuels; CO2 emissions reduction, carbon capture and sequestration.
CHE6881-Advanced reaction engineering:The development of chemical tools that allow realisation of the concept of a sustainable future - meeting the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs - is the basis for the course of sustainable chemistry. This will be dealt with in three interconnected streams: Introduction to green chemistry, Sustainable technologies and Green energy technologies.
CHE6882-Biomass and biorefineries:This unit provides students with the opportunity to carry out a research project overseas as part of their final year of study in chemistry. The project may be carried out within a university or industry research laboratory by arrangement and approval of the Head of School. Allied with the practical work will be online tutorial materials and support on formal matters relating to OH&S, database searching, data analysis and presentation and report presentation.
CHE6883-Nanostructured membranes for separation and energy production:This course allows students to devote themselves to a substantial laboratory project as part of their final year of study in Chemistry. The project may be carried out within the School of Chemistry teaching and research laboratories or in an industrial laboratory by arrangement and approval of the Head of School. Allied with the practical work will be tutorial materials and discussion on formal matters relating to OH&S, database searching, data analysis and presentation and report presentation.
CHE6884-Process modelling and optimisation:Students undertake a supervised research project in a specialised area of chemistry. Candidates may commence the honours year at the beginning of either first or Second Semester (July). Further information is available from the course coordinator and at a meeting held with prospective students during Second Semester (July) of third year.
CHE6885-Principles and practices for sustainable development:Students undertake a supervised research project in a specialised area of chemistry. Candidates may commence the honours year at the beginning of either first or Second Semester (July). Further information is available from the course coordinator and at a meeting held with prospective students during Second Semester (July) of third year.
CHM1011-Chemistry 1:All students will undertake a Professional Studies topic and one core topic defined by the School, as well as three elective topics from specialised areas of chemistry, such as pericyclic reactions, separation science, advanced organic synthesis, main group inorganic chemistry, supramolecular chemistry, computational chemistry and electron microscopy. Each topic will require students to attend 8 lecture equivalents making a total of 48 lecture equivalents for the unit. Further information is available from the course coordinator and at a meeting held with prospective students during Second Semester (July) of third year.
CHM1022-Chemistry 2:All students will undertake a Professional Studies topic and one core topic defined by the School, as well as three elective topics from specialised areas of chemistry, such as pericyclic reactions, separation science, advanced organic synthesis, main group inorganic chemistry, supramolecular chemistry, computational chemistry and electron microscopy. Each topic will require students to attend 8 lecture equivalents making a total of 48 lecture equivalents for the unit. Further information is available from the course coordinator and at a meeting held with prospective students during Second Semester (July) of third year.
CHM1051-Chemistry 1 advanced:All students will undertake a Professional Studies topic and one core topic defined by the School, as well as three elective topics from specialised areas of chemistry, such as pericyclic reactions, separation science, advanced organic synthesis, main group inorganic chemistry, supramolecular chemistry, computational chemistry and electron microscopy. Each topic will require students to attend 8 lecture equivalents making a total of 48 lecture equivalents for the unit. Further information is available from the course coordinator and at a meeting held with prospective students during Second Semester (July) of third year.
CHM1052-Chemistry 2 advanced:This unit provides advanced instruction in quantitative methods, thesis writing and current topics to students enrolled in the honours program in medicinal chemistry. Students will gain an understanding of advanced experimental design, data analysis and scientific writing that will assist them in completing their honours thesis. Further classes and coursework relating to current topics in medicinal chemistry will assist students in critical analysis of journal articles, providing further support for their academic development in research science.
CHM4221-Chemistry honours coursework part time II:Solid mechanics is concerned with the stressing, deformation and failure of solid materials. This unit conveys some of this fundamental knowledge related to the analysis and design of engineering structures. It builds on aspects taught in the level 1 unit ENG1001. Topics covered include; bending moment diagrams of determinate and indeterminate beam/frame systems, the calculation of normal stresses due to combined bi-axial bending and axial forces (including those resulting from thermal loading); partial and fully plastic section moment capacities; torsion, shear stress and shear flow in beams; and the calculation of deflections in simple determinate beams. The theory of elasticity is then introduced covering; stress and strain at a point, the transformation of stresses and strains and the calculation of principal stresses and strains; the constitutive relationship between elastic stress-strain behaviour; Mohr's circle; and failure criterion with specific reference to pressure vessels.
CHM4280-Honours coursework in medicinal chemistry:This unit covers basic spreadsheet computing skills and includes particular training in: mathematical tools such as matrix operations (eg solving simultaneous equations), curve fitting and trend lines, and numerical search techniques; user defined functions; user interface elements such as dialog boxes (using elements such as labels, text boxes, drop-down list boxes, spinners, etc) and VBA programming to automate spreadsheet functions. It also covers the following topics in water engineering: estimation of design rainfall; runoff processes; streamflow data and analysis; flood frequency analysis; reservoir operation and a major assignment on hydrology using spreadsheets.
CHMGC1011-Chemistry I:This unit introduces the design of steel and timber framed structures in accordance with the design codes. It enables the students to understand the process for the design of steel and timber structures and the background knowledge which leads to the development of the current steel and timber design codes. Students will understand the behaviour of steel and timber structural components under realistic design conditions and relate the knowledge of design to practical design problems in a project-based learning environment.
CHMGC1022-Chemistry II:This unit introduces students to concrete technology, reinforced concrete and masonry design. Three major topics areas are basic concrete materials technology, reinforced concrete analysis and design, and masonry basics and design. The unit provides a balanced coverage of the practical construction aspects, analytical methods and design aspects.
CHMGC2752-Chemistry of the environment:The unit covers all aspects of geomechanics at an elementary level, as well as basic engineering geology, formation and weathering processes, sedimentary, igneous and metamorphic rocks, soil and rock forming minerals, geological mapping and modelling, site investigations, in-situ testing, engineering classification of soil and rock, weight-volume relationship, and the two/three phase model. It also includes effective stress theory, stresses in a soil mass and shear strength. The unit includes elementary-level application of geomechanics knowledge in the analysis and design of shallow and deep foundations.
CHMGC2762-Design of molecules & macromolecules:The unit focuses on fundamentals of hydraulics. Hydrostatics is first introduced with application to dam and gates. The basic equations of continuity, momentum and energy conservation are derived and applied to the design of pressurised pipelines. Flow in open channels is introduced with application to waterways, aqueducts and pipes flowing partly full; applications include design of spillways and culverts.
CHMGC2922-Spectroscopy & analytical chemistry:This unit introduces students to the field of transport and traffic engineering. The fundamental parameters used to describe deterministic traffic flow behaviour are introduced along with a simple traffic flow model. Stochastic traffic flow behaviour is described via random distributions. Fundamental queuing theory of traffic is briefly introduced. The procedures used to analyse the capacity and level of service are explored for both unsignalised and signalised intersections. The principle of traffic signal operation at isolated intersections is presented. Traffic surveys are discussed and students are introduced to contemporary road safety issues as well. Public transport is considered at the route level concerning the determination of fleet size and factors affecting operational capacity and reliability. Non-motorised transport including cyclists and pedestrians is also considered. In addition, the unit addresses Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS). Consideration will also be given to the role of communications in the practice of transport and traffic engineers. To enhance students' understanding of the unit content from practical points of view, some experts will be invited to give lectures on their relevant work. Throughout the whole unit, the focus is primarily on surface transport systems and applications of advanced technologies therein.
CHMGC3742-Chemistry of the environment 2:Introduction to the nature of civil engineering construction projects. Construction technology including equipment performance, construction techniques, prefabrication, concrete, steel, timber, foundations, buildings, roads, formwork etc. Relevant OHS and site environmental management issues and requirements. Industry experience gained by working with a construction company.
CHMGC3930-Medicinal Chemistry:Introduction to the nature of civil engineering construction projects. Construction technology including equipment performance, construction techniques, prefabrication, concrete, steel, timber, foundations, buildings, roads, formwork etc. Relevant OHS and site environmental management issues and requirements. Industry experience gained by working with a construction company. Students require at least 4 days on-site construction experience to be eligible to enrol in this unit.
CHMHONS-Final grade Chemistry honours:Systematic approaches to engineering data collection, analysis and interpretation. The Scope covers data description and presentation, randomness, discrete probability, continuous probability, conditional probability, Bayes' Theorem, normal distribution, sampling distributions, point estimation, interval estimation, hypothesis testing, linear regression.
EAE1011-Earth, atmosphere and environment 1:This field-based unit is taught on location in the National Park/World Heritage Area of Cinque Terre on the Italian Riviera. Identified by UNESCO as an environment and cultural landscape worth preserving, the region is under immense pressure due to climate change, rural depopulation, abandonment of agricultural lands, landscape instability, and burgeoning tourism. Problems of integrating tourism and agricultural objectives, while minimising negative environmental and cultural impacts, will be explored and possible solutions for regional sustainability proposed. The unit provides unique opportunities for interaction with staff of the National Park and various local and national authorities.
EAE1022-Earth, atmosphere and environment 2:The unit represents the Honours research program for the School of Earth, Atmosphere, and Environment and will consist of a research project combined with coursework taken in EAE4200. The research projects will span the discipline of Environmental, Atmospheric Sciences as well as Geology and Geophysics.
EAE2011-Environmental problem solving and visualisation:The unit represents the Honours research program for the School of Earth, Atmosphere, and Environment and will consist of a research project combined with coursework taken in EAE4200. The research projects will span the discipline of environmental, atmospheric sciences as well as geology and geophysics.
EAE2111-Introduction to climate science:The unit represents the Honours research program for the School of Earth, Atmosphere, and Environment and will consist of a research project combined with coursework taken in EAE4200. The research projects will span the discipline of Environmental, Atmospheric Sciences as well as Geology and Geophysics.
EAE2122-Introduction to atmospheric physics and dynamics:The unit represents the Honours coursework program for the School of Earth, Atmosphere, and Environment and will consist of a series of short courses, a seminar and a theoretical literature review.
EAE2322-Environmental earth science:The unit represents the Honours coursework program for the School of Earth, Atmosphere, and Environment and will consist of a series of short courses, a seminar and a theoretical literature review.
EAE2511-Deep earth processes:The unit represents the Honours coursework program for the School of Earth, Atmosphere, and Environment and will consist of a series of short courses, a seminar and a theoretical literature review.
EAE2522-Sediments and basins:The unit provides a practical introduction to the principles, techniques and applications in GIS for environmental problem solving and decision making. It covers a wide range of topics including general nature of spatial data, spatial data quality, georeferencing, raster and vector approaches, spatial data management, spatial analysis, spatial modelling, spatial visualisation, terrain analysis, and GIS applications in land use analysis, hydrology, ecology, geoscience, environmental policy and decision analysis.
EAE4110-Earth, atmosphere and environment honours research project part time 1:An introduction to the study of economics; consumer behaviour; demand and supply and the operation of markets; market efficiency and welfare; welfare effects of international trade; public sector economics; the behaviour of firms and the organisation of an industry; market structures - perfect competition and monopoly; economies of the labour market.
EAE4120-Earth, atmosphere and environment honours research project part time 2:An introduction to the study of economics from a macroeconomic perspective including the following areas of study: trade in a global village, GDP as National Income and Aggregate Expenditure, savings and investment, unemployment, money and the Australian monetary system, aggregate demand and supply in the short and long run, monetary and fiscal policy including the related debates and in particular Australia as an open economy.
EAE4200-Earth, atmosphere and environment honours coursework:Topics include the supply of and the demand for labour, education and training, the operation of labour markets, including the role of institutions in the labour market, wage relativities, disadvantaged groups in the labour market, and the role of trade unions. Also included is a study of the macroeconomic implications of wage changes and a consideration of wages policy. Special attention is given to the current labour market conditions.
EAE4210-Earth, atmosphere and environment honours coursework part time 1:This unit develops analytical skills and fundamental concepts that economists need in order to understand the overall macroeconomic policies. It will cover the cyclical behaviour of the economy; the determinants of the level of national income, money and inflation, interest rate, exchange rate, capital flows, international trade, and the natural rate of unemployment; the role of monetary, fiscal and exchange rate policies in influencing economic activities.
EAE4220-Earth, atmosphere and environment honours coursework part time 2:This unit examines the scope for policy to improve macroeconomic performance. It will cover: the cyclical behaviour of the economy; the role of monetary, fiscal and exchange rate policies in influencing economic activities; the implementation and operation of monetary policy; the relationship of exchange rates to monetary policy; major factors determining movements in interest rates and exchange rates in both the intermediate and long terms.
EAE5258-Geographical information systems (GIS) for environmental science:This unit focuses on the topics of international finance and trade. This includes the importance of international finance; the balance of payments accounts; the mechanisms for financing international trade; the effect of macroeconomic policies on trade balance; the determination of exchange rates; the operation of foreign exchange markets and alternative exchange rate systems; foreign investment; foreign exchange risk and operating exposure.
ECE2011-Signal processing:The unit presents a structured treatment of the design of switched mode power electronic converters. The course starts with passive diode rectifiers followed by thyristor rectifiers. Introducing various semiconductor active switches, commutation cells, and pulse width modulation technique, various active power electronics converters including DC/DC buck and boost converters, two-level DC/AC converters, and three-level DC/AC converters will be studied in details. Moreover, the procedure for designing various controllers for such converters will be discussed. Finally, several real-world applications such as variable speed drives, power filters, grid-tied power converters for renewable energy grid integration, and UPS systems are presented as examples.
ECE2021-Electromagnetism:The unit introduces concepts of high voltage phenomena in the context of design and testing of electrical power plant. The unit describes sources of over voltage in power systems. It then presents fundamentals of high voltage insulation design and condition monitoring methods. It describes insulation performance characteristics and diagnostic methods in plant such as generators, transformers and high voltage cables. The notions of insulation co-ordination and over voltage protection are also established. Additionally, the unit introduces static electricity phenomena, hazards they pose and technology applications they bring.
ECE2031-Circuits and control:The unit aims to develop a fundamental understanding of the performance, specification and fabrication of large scale digital circuits. Students will become experienced at the design, simulation, verification and debugging of complex large scale digital circuits using a Hardware Description Language (HDL) and current CAD tools with FPGA development boards. Two group design projects will be undertaken: one involving an HDL using FPGA devices and another involving custom VLSI CMOS design and simulation
ECE2041-Telecommunications:Electronic testing in IC fabrication cycle; the importance and organisation of testing within technological process; test equipment used in industry to verify the correct operation of digital integrated circuits (generic architecture and operation of a test system, main modules of a tester and their operation, computer-aided test engineering tools, test system programming, device interface board design), digital test methodologies (DC parametric, AC, functional and IDDQ tests), semiconductor memory testing, introduction to analogue and mixed-signal testing, design-for-testability and built-in self-test and their implication on test technology, test data collection and analysis.
ECE2071-Computer organisation and programming:This unit builds upon earlier studies in computer organisation and engineering. The unit will explore the structures, techniques and trade-offs implicit in the study of high performance computer architectures. The focus will be on exploring all aspects of exploitable concurrency in computer systems and the applications they support. This will include considerations of data path design, memory structures, resource allocation and scheduling, threading, branch prediction; alternative application specific computer architectures; implementation using reconfigurable devices and high-level languages.
ECE2072-Digital systems:The unit enables students to understand, analyse, specify, design and test embedded systems in terms of the hardware architecture, distributed systems and the software development that deploys a real-time kernel and the migration of software to hardware. The design, analysis and implementation of a real-time kernel will be studied that includes scheduling policies, process creation and management, inter-process communication, efficient handling of I/O and distributed processor implementation issues. Students will be involved in a design project that involves the hardware and real-time system design of an embedded system with hard deadlines using an FPGA development system.
ECE2111-Signals and systems:This unit aims to develop an understanding of methods for extracting useful information (eg 3-D structure; object size, motion, shape, location and identity, etc) from images. It will allow students to understand how to construct computer vision systems for robotics, surveillance, medical imaging, and related application areas.
ECE2131-Electrical circuits:This unit will look at the applications of modern object oriented approaches to engineering computation. Numerical libraries based upon modern meta-programming techniques are introduced to show ways of constructing performance-critical software to solve engineering problems that are formulated as partial differential equations. Due to their widespread usage, special emphasis will be placed on constructing numerical solutions based on finite difference and finite element methods. Specifically, this unit will extensively use advanced C++ language features and numerical libraries such as Blitz++.
ECE2191-Probability models in engineering:Intelligent robotics concerns the melding of artificial perception, strategic reasoning and robotic action in potentially unstructured and time-varying environments to fulfil useful physical tasks, whether in industry or for security, healthcare, search and rescue or civil defence etc. This unit covers topics underpinning the above requirements, including sensors, sensor fusion, machine perception, environmental mapping/monitoring, path planning, localisation, mechanisms, artificial intelligence methodologies and application domains.
ECE3022-Wireless and guided EM:This unit shows how engineering principles are used in the design and construction of biomedical instrumentation. This includes application of electrochemistry to biological membranes, application of cable theory to nerve axons, application of electronic design principles to the recording of biological electrical signals, application of quantitative optics to spectrometry and fluoroscopy. In addition, the operating principles of a wide range of medical and laboratory instruments will be explored, ranging from pH meters to gene sequencers, pressure transducers to anaesthetic machines.
ECE3031-Control systems:This unit will apply the basic mechanics included in the engineering course to the physiological background of the biomedical engineers. This will include characterisation of the principal body tissues as engineering materials, such as bone, cartilage and ligaments as structural materials, joints as mechanisms, muscles as motors and brakes, the heart as a pump, and the nervous system as sensor network and controller. Gait, the prime example of the interaction of all these elements, will be studied in its own right, and as a diagnostic tool in palsied, diseased and prosthetic patients. The technologies of the gait lab and of ambulatory monitoring will also be covered.
ECE3051-Electrical energy systems:This unit will introduce a range of medical imaging technologies currently used in health care, covering aspects of technical design, medical image analysis, systems integration and emerging technologies. It introduces students to the wide range of imaging modalities with an emphasis on the design and technical development of each modality. Future needs on medical imaging in health care and emerging medical imaging technologies will be covered. Image analysis and visualisation in the context of image guided therapy, image guided surgery, and virtual reality based simulation will also be covered.
ECE3062-Electronic systems and control:This unit provides an introduction to the process of design and innovation with particular reference to medical technology. The design, development and manufacture of medical technology are covered, taking into consideration safety and effectiveness issues, regulatory and legal issues, the patient equipment interface and the hospital or medical environment in which the equipment is to be used. This will be achieved through case studies and development of a business plan.
ECE3073-Computer systems:Together with ECE4095 Project B, this unit is a challenging opportunity to pursue independently an individual project and is likely to require extended effort. The two units together normally include a preparatory literature survey and developmental work such as design, construction and programming. Students choose a project that interests them, and are assigned to a team of two supervising staff members.
ECE3091-Engineering design:Together with ECE4094 Project A this unit is a challenging opportunity to pursue independently an individual project and is likely to require extended effort. The two units together normally include a preparatory literature survey and developmental work such as design, construction and programming. Students choose a project that interests them, and are assigned to a team of two supervising staff members.
ECE3093-Optimisation estimation and numerical methods:This unit will cover topics relevant to engineers working in a business environment, particularly in management, focusing on recent case studies. Areas covered include management of individuals, teams and organisations, management philosophy and practical techniques. Financial management will be discussed, including company objectives, accounting fundamentals, and financial planning and control. Marketing will follow, including business planning, quality and quality control. Relevant legal issues will be covered, including intellectual property, contract and negligence. This will be drawn together in discussing the role of the professional engineer, ethical behaviour and decision making.
ECE3132-Control system design:The unit evaluates the propagation of time-harmonic electromagnetic waves in wireless and guided media using Maxwell's equations. The media covered include vacuum/air, radio frequency (RF) and microwave transmission lines, metallic waveguides, planar optical waveguides and optical fibres. The unit also explores different types of antennas that can be used to generate the electromagnetic waves. In addition to these, the unit covers concepts related to electromagnetic interference (EMI) and electromagnetic compatibility (EMC). Using these concepts, the unit explores practical problems such as interference and coupling in RF/microwave circuits and discusses solutions such as grounding, shielding and filtering. In each section of this unit, the learned theory is related to real-world applications to expand the understanding of students.
ECE4043-Optical communications:Air data and air data systems; control of aircraft dynamics; fly by wire flight control; inertial sensors and systems; navigational systems; display and man machine interaction; auto pilots and flight management systems; radar, communications systems; flight instrumentation; avionics systems integration; electromagnetic interference and compatibility. An introduction to electromagnetic fields; their generation, propagation and reception, for communications and as interference. An introduction to modulation theory and noise.
ECE4044-Telecommunications protocols:The unit introduces basic theory behind the organic electronics and micro technologies related to micro sensors, micro actuators and organic devices such as Organic LEDs (OLEDs). The topics include study of materials used in organic electronics and MEMS, study of their electrical and mechanical properties, basic structures in micro devices such as cantilever beams and comb structures, the fabrication techniques involved in manufacturing micro and nano structures, and measurement techniques suitable for characterising micro devices. Examples will include principles of physical sensors; piezoelectric effect based microsensors; chemical microsensors; OLED devices; MEMS and microsystems computer based simulations. An elementary part of the unit will be the laboratory exercises and project work to produce micro devices and construct suitable electronic circuits/simulate to demonstrate their applications.
ECE4045-Network performance:The unit introduces students to the basic element of Solid State Lighting technology, including it's role in energy consumption and in global climate change as well as possibilities in reduction of energy consumption. Topics include structure and working principle of Light Emitting Diode (LED), basics of optics and light-material interaction for lighting, lighting technology, radiometric and photometric measurements and units, effect of light in the built environment and for human well being, basics of color and human vision, measures for quality of light and lighting standards. Laboratories cover light measurement, use of color standards and standard light sources, light spectrum measurements and defining the Color Rendering Index.
ECE4053-Electrical energy - generation and supply:The practical application of DSP systems using industry standard platforms. The unit covers practical aspects including current industry standard integrated software development and debugger tools, Assembler from C, code optimisation, memory management, cache, Architecture, Hardware pipelining, XDAIS (eXpressDSP Algorithm Standard), EDMA, HWI (hardware interrupts), McBSP (multiple channel buffered serial port), channel sorting, DSP/BIOS (scalable real-time kernel), HPI (host port interface). Advanced topics include wavelets, adaptive filters, real time digital filters.
ECE4054-Electrical energy - power converters and motor control:This unit is a study of the fundamentals of radio transmitters and receivers, the wireless radio channel and radio/wireless networks. An investigation into the configuration of wireless units to create communications systems and networks leads on to an appreciation of the diversity of wireless applications for personal and public use.
ECE4055-Electrical energy - power electronic applications:This unit will cover aspects of physical layer communications which are relevant to modern communication systems. Digital modulation techniques, including quadrature modulation and orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) will be covered. The effects on noise on bit error rates will be covered, along with techniques to reduce them, including matched filtering and equalisation. Information theory covers questions of capacity, diversity, and error correction coding. Finally the use of multiple input multiple output (MIMO) communication systems will be covered.
ECE4058-Electrical energy - high voltage engineering:Students will study the characteristics of key components that make up optical communications systems, including: lasers and advanced lightwave sources and direct modulation, optical modulators, optical fibres, optical amplifiers, filters and multiplexers, optical receivers and associated electronics. Secondly, students will use this knowledge to analyse and design optical communications systems. Examples will include local-area networks, metropolitan area networks, long-haul links and transcontinental networks.
ECE4063-Large scale digital design:This unit addresses the fundamental concepts and analytical tools for modelling, predicting and improving the performance of telecommunication networks. It also introduces simulation methods. First, network performance modelling and estimation is studied. Second, congestion in telecommunication networks is covered, and effectiveness of various congestion control algorithms, especially. Third, a comparative analysis of routing algorithms is covered from the graph theory perspective. The focus then shifts to individual links and an introduction to information theory, and limits of channel capacity are discussed. Finally, methods for Quality of Service (QoS) guarantees are studied.
ECE4064-Electronic test technology:This unit aims to develop an understanding of the structure and operation of electrical power systems using different resources, and considering their environmental impacts. It covers current and future energy scenarios for the world and Australia. This requires an understanding of the basic concepts and modelling of electrical power systems, including techniques for power flow and fault analysis, control of voltage, frequency, harmonic distortion, and system stability. Methods are presented to identify and clear faults, maximise power system economy and estimate the capital cost as well as unit price of electricity (/kWh) using various energy conversion technologies.
ECE4074-Advanced computer architecture:The unit presents a structured treatment of the design of switched mode power electronic converters. It begins by considering semiconductor devices and topologies of various types of converters that suit particular applications. Then, detailed design processes are developed, taking into account converter topology and semiconductor device selection, design of magnetic components, voltage-mode and current-mode closed loop control, use of simulation, physical design layout, and EMI/EMC considerations, in the context of particular applications. Finally, specific real-world systems such as electronic lighting ballast's, UPSs and high-frequency induction heating systems are presented as examples.
ECE4075-Real time embedded systems:The unit introduces concepts of high voltage phenomena in the context of design and testing of electrical power plant. The unit describes sources of over voltage in power systems. It then presents fundamentals of high voltage insulation design and condition monitoring methods. It describes insulation performance characteristics and diagnostic methods in plant such as generators, transformers and high voltage cables. The notions of insulation co-ordination and over voltage protection are also established. Additionally, the unit introduces static electricity phenomena, hazards they pose and technology applications they bring.
ECE4076-Computer vision:This unit builds upon earlier studies in computer organisation and engineering. The unit will explore the structures, techniques and trade-offs implicit in the study of high performance computer architectures. The focus will be on exploring all aspects of exploitable concurrency in computer systems and the applications they support. This will include considerations of data path design, memory structures, resource allocation and scheduling, threading, branch prediction; alternative application specific computer architectures; implementation using re-configurable devices and high-level languages.
ECE4077-Advanced computing techniques:The unit enables students to understand, analyse, specify, design and test embedded systems in terms of the hardware architecture, distributed systems and the software development that deploys a real time kernel and the migration of software to hardware. The design, analysis and implementation of a real time kernel will be studied that includes scheduling policies, process creation and management, inter-process communication, efficient handling of I/O and distributed processor implementation issues. Students will be involved in a design project that involves the hardware and real time system design of an embedded system with hard deadlines using an FPGA development system.
ECE4078-Intelligent robotics:This unit aims to develop an understanding of methods for extracting useful information (eg 3-D structure; object size, motion, shape, location and identity etc) from images. It will allow students to understand how to construct computer vision systems for robotics, surveillance, medical imaging, and related application
ECE4081-Medical instrumentation:This unit will look at the applications of modern object oriented approaches to engineering computation. Numerical libraries based upon modern meta-programming techniques are introduced to show ways of constructing performance-critical software to solve engineering problems that are formulated as partial differential equations. Due to their widespread usage, special emphasis will be placed on constructing numerical solutions based on Finite Difference and Finite Element methods. Specifically, this unit will extensively use advanced C++ language features and numerical libraries such as Blitz++.
ECE4084-Biomechanics of human musculoskeletal systems:This unit will apply the basic mechanics included in the engineering course to the physiological background of the biomedical engineers. This will include characterisation of the principle body tissues as engineering materials, such as bone, cartilage and ligaments as structural materials, joints as mechanisms, muscles as motors and brakes, the heart as a pump, and the nervous system as sensor network and controller. Gait, the prime example of the interaction of all these elements, will be studied in its own right, and as a diagnostic tool in palsied, diseased and prosthetic patients. The technologies of the gait lab and of ambulatory monitoring will also be covered.
ECE4086-Medical imaging technology:This unit will introduce a range of medical imaging technologies currently used in health care, covering aspects of technical design, medical image analysis, systems integration and emerging technologies. It introduces students to the wide range of imaging modalities with an emphasis on the design and technical development of each modality. Future needs on medical imaging in health care and emerging medical imaging technologies will be covered. Image analysis and visualisation in the context of image guided therapy, image guided surgery, and virtual reality based simulation will also be covered.
ECE4087-Medical technology innovation:This unit provides an introduction to the process of design and innovation with particular reference to medical technology. The design, development and manufacture of medical technology are covered, taking into consideration safety and effectiveness issues, regulatory and legal issues, the patient equipment interface and the hospital or medical environment in which the equipment is to be used. This will be achieved through case studies and development of a business plan.
ECE4094-Project A:Together with ECE5095 Project B, this unit is a challenging opportunity to pursue independently an individual project and is likely to require extended effort. The two units together normally include a preparatory literature survey and developmental work such as design, construction and programming. Students choose a project that interests them, and are assigned to a team of two supervising staff members.
ECE4095-Project B:Together with ECE5094 Project A this unit is a challenging opportunity to pursue independently an individual project and is likely to require extended effort. The two units together normally include a preparatory literature survey and developmental work such as design, construction and programming. Students choose a project that interests them, and are assigned to a team of two supervising staff members.
ECE4099-Professional practice:The unit aims to enable students to understand, analyse, specify, design and test real-time systems using both hardware and software development. Migration between software and hardware will be considered as an approach to meet design criterion such as speed, throughput, energy usage and cost. The design, analysis and implementation of real-time operating systems will be studied and will include scheduling policies, process creation and management, inter-process communication and synchronisation, efficient handling of I/O and communication. Students will complete a major team design project that includes hardware and software design of a real-time system.
ECE4112-Signal processing:This an advanced unit in electronics design. Students will be provided with an in-depth knowledge of radio frequency (RF) and microwave circuits and systems. The unit builds on students' basic electronic knowledge obtained from their undergraduate engineering degree to a more advanced analog and RF electronics, with more theory and applications of electronics. The unit will teach students the detailed design principles of passive and active electronic devices at radio frequencies. Students will learn to use CAD design software packages for assignments and projects. Important analogue and RF building components such as amplifiers, filters, oscillators, modulators, mixers and phase locked loops will be taught. Topics such as noise and interference in electronics circuits will also be covered. Students will undertake a group project where RF/mixed signal circuits will be designed, built and tested in the laboratory.
ECE4122-Advanced electromagnetics:The unit introduces the fundamentals of statistical signal processing with emphasis on stochastic models, estimation theory, parametric and non-parametric modelling and least squares methods. After a review of basic probability and random processes, the use of stochastic models for real world signals is illustrated. A family of algorithms for the creation, efficient representation and effective modelling is presented. Specifically, linear stochastic models are presented and the importance of correlation structure in deriving the parameters of such models is illustrated. The unit also covers how parametric and non-parametric models as well as statistical techniques are used to extract information from data signals corrupted by noise. The concept of estimation from real world data is presented, as opposed to the basic analysis of signals, transfer functions and power spectra. In particular, the fundamentals of linear estimation theory and optimal filtering to design advanced signal processing algorithms are presented.
ECE4132-Control system design:This unit introduces the fundamentals of wireless communications and networking. Students will learn about the characteristics of wireless channels, coding, modulation techniques, methods of combating fading including space, time and frequency diversity, multiple access techniques and cellular networks. A selection of more advanced topics will also be covered including MIMO systems, heterogeneous networks, cognitive and cooperative communications.
ECE4142-Communications systems:This unit covers modern lighting technology and teaches how lighting can be used for improving sustainability and energy savings. The unit discusses how sensor networks, machine learning techniques and visible light communication can be used to build autonomous lighting networks. It also relates these concepts to intelligent lighting and green building requirements.
ECE4146-Multimedia Technologies:The Smart Grid unit provides a comprehensive knowledge about the Smart Grid and how it is to be operated and protected for improving sustainability and energy savings. The core of the unit is intelligent infrastructure for Smart Grid and its heightening vulnerability, and how to protect it effectively. The basic economic fundamentals of power systems and conventional and renewable power generation in regulated and deregulated environment are introduced first. The basic concepts of intelligent control, application of intelligent agents in grid technology, and intelligent components commonly used in Smart Grids are extensively discussed afterward. Also included is how distribution networks adapt to intermittent energy sources (e.g. solar and wind) through the use of smart grids, emerging technologies and energy storage systems. The unit will conclude with defining concept, design and purpose of the Smart Grid, reviewing current and relevant technologies developed, assessing its vulnerabilities to a cyber-attack, and finding effective protective mechanisms for the grid.
ECE4151-Electrical energy systems:The unit aims to enable students to understand, analyse, specify, design and test real-time systems using both hardware and software development. Migration between software and hardware will be considered as an approach to meet design criterion such as speed, throughput, energy usage and cost. The design, analysis and implementation of real-time operating systems will be studied and will include scheduling policies, process creation and management, inter-process communication and synchronisation, efficient handling of I/O and communication. Students will complete a major team design project that includes hardware and software design of a real-time system.
ECE4162-Electronic systems design:This an advanced unit in electronics design. Students will be provided with an in-depth knowledge of radio frequency (RF) and microwave circuits and systems. The unit builds on students' basic electronic knowledge obtained from their undergraduate engineering degree to a more advanced analog and RF electronics, with more theory and applications of electronics. The unit will teach students the detailed design principles of passive and active electronic devices at radio frequencies. Students will learn to use CAD design software packages for assignments and projects. Important analogue and RF building components such as amplifiers, filters, oscillators, modulators, mixers and phase locked loops will be taught. Topics such as noise and interference in electronics circuits will also be covered. Students will undertake a group project where RF/mixed signal circuits will be designed, built and tested in the laboratory.
ECE4174-Computer vision and robotics:The unit introduces the fundamentals of statistical signal processing with emphasis on stochastic models, estimation theory, parametric and non-parametric modelling and least squares methods. After a review of basic probability and random processes, the use of stochastic models for real world signals is illustrated. A family of algorithms for the creation, efficient representation and effective modelling is presented. Specifically, linear stochastic models are presented and the importance of correlation structure in deriving the parameters of such models is illustrated. The unit also covers how parametric and non-parametric models as well as statistical techniques are used to extract information from data signals corrupted by noise. The concept of estimation from real world data is presented, as opposed to the basic analysis of signals, transfer functions and power spectra. In particular, the fundamentals of linear estimation theory and optimal filtering to design advanced signal processing algorithms are presented.
ECE4175-Advanced digital systems:This unit introduces the fundamentals of wireless communications and networking. Students will learn about the characteristics of wireless channels, coding, modulation techniques, methods of combating fading including space, time and frequency diversity, multiple access techniques and cellular networks. A selection of more advanced topics will also be covered including MIMO systems, heterogeneous networks, cognitive and cooperative communications.
ECE4181-Biomedical engineering:This unit covers modern lighting technology and teaches how lighting can be used for improving sustainability and energy savings. The unit discusses how sensor networks, machine learning techniques and visible light communication can be used to build autonomous lighting networks. It also relates these concepts to intelligent lighting and green building requirements.
ECE4421-Avionics 1B:The Smart Grid unit provides a comprehensive knowledge about the Smart Grid and how it is to be operated and protected for improving sustainability and energy savings. The core of the unit is intelligent infrastructure for Smart Grid and its heightening vulnerability, and how to protect it effectively. The basic economic fundamentals of power systems and conventional and renewable power generation in regulated and deregulated environment are introduced first. The basic concepts of intelligent control, application of intelligent agents in grid technology, and intelligent components commonly used in Smart Grids are extensively discussed afterward. Also included is how distribution networks adapt to intermittent energy sources (e.g. solar and wind) through the use of smart grids, emerging technologies and energy storage systems. The unit will conclude with defining concept, design and purpose of the Smart Grid, reviewing current and relevant technologies developed, assessing its vulnerabilities to a cyber-attack, and finding effective protective mechanisms for the grid.
ECE4808-Organic electronics and micro devices:Economics as an area of knowledge. Economics in a business degree. Understanding economic policy. An analysis of markets: supply and demand; consumer behaviour; firm behaviour; cost of production and profit maximisation; behaviour of firms in different market structures; evaluation of market capitalist economic systems, economic efficiency, market failure, government failure; current economic policies, competition policy, privatisation and the funding of education.
ECE4809-Solid state lighting:This unit uses aggregate demand and supply analysis as a tool for identifying and explaining the business cycle, output growth employment, inflation and the current account deficit. The investigation will illustrate the impact of the macroeconomy on decisions by firms and other economic agents in the economy and the effect of fiscal and monetary policies on business outcomes. Key strategic variables affecting decision making in the macro business environment are interest rates, inflation and the Australian dollar.
ECE5012-Applied digital signal processing:This unit examines the scope for policy to improve macroeconomic performance. It will cover: the cyclical behaviour of the economy; the role of monetary, fiscal and exchange rate policies in influencing economic activities; the implementation and operation of monetary policy; the relationship of exchange rates to monetary policy; major factors determining movements in interest rates and exchange rates in both the intermediate and long terms.
ECE5024-Wireless communications:This unit will cover: demand for sport, sports revenues, the economics of sports broadcasting, the pricing of sports events; why professional team sports leagues form, whether clubs are profit maximisers or win-maximisers, remedies for competitive imbalance such as player drafts, salary caps and revenue sharing, the role of player associations in professional sport; government subsidies in sport, the economic impact of sports events, stadium financing; case studies of professional team sports leagues in Australia, North America and Europe; globalisation in professional sport, future directions in sport.
ECE5042-Communications theory:The recent economic and social development of selected Asian countries, especially the role of the business sector. Topics include entrepreneurship; technological change; the dynamics of comparative advantage; import substitution versus export-oriented industrial growth; the development state; the stages of business growth.
ECE5043-Optical communications:This unit focuses on the topics of international finance and trade. This includes the importance of international finance, the determination of exchange rates, foreign investment, parity conditions, hedging and speculation in foreign exchange markets, foreign exchange markets-spot, forward, futures and options markets, the balance of payments accounts and the effect of macroeconomic policies on trade balance.
ECE5045-Network performance:Students will deepen their knowledge of the differing views of the firm. Topics include: the firm within a capitalist economic system; the macroeconomic constraints on the firm; the market structural constraints on the firm; differing perspectives of the firm - the conventional economic, technological view, the accounting, management and marketing views, the recent transaction costs and new classical view; how these different areas explain current issues such as downsizing and electronic commerce.
ECE5053-Electrical energy - generation and supply:This unit introduces economic principles underlying consumer choice and market demand; describing consumer preferences, indifference curves and budget constraints, with particular emphasis on the role of prices as conveyors of information. It introduces economic tools and concepts for the analyses of consumption choices over time, under uncertainty and/or with risk, and in markets with asymmetric information. Other topics include work-leisure choice, wage changes and the supply of labour, and the provision of public goods and environmental goods. An examination of observed economic and social outcomes from the point of view of various normative criteria completes the coverage.
ECE5055-Electrical energy - power electronic applications:The pure theory of international trade. Trade and income distribution, economic growth and changes in trade, bases for trade and gains from trade. Trade policy. Tariffs, quotas, subsidies, import discrimination and other national policies affecting trade. Trade policies in developing nations. The foreign exchange market and its impact on international trade. Models of currency crisis.
ECE5058-Electrical energy - high voltage engineering:This unit is designed to analyse the effect of money on the key economic variables such as interest rates, inflation, output and the workings of the banking sector. In addition, we will also examine the roles commerical banks and the central bank play in the process of money creation and implementation of monetary policies. The unit also teaches an economic approach to interpret today's information and policy decisions that can help you to predict future events and the effects those events can have on your own decisions.
ECE5074-Advanced computer architecture:This unit considers market structures, conduct and performance from the business perspective; economic policy as it affects business, particularly in relation to its dealings with consumers; the variety of approaches to competition and regulation policies from the international perspective; analysis of policies with respect to prices, monopolies, oligopolies and mergers, exclusive dealing, consumer protection and licensing, deregulation and privatisation.
ECE5075-Real time embedded systems:Australia, especially Victoria, has been in the forefront of microeconomic reform. This subject focuses on that experience: structural shifts in demand and production costs; the nature of imperfect markets; how, when and why markets fail; the roles of government in a deregulated environment; the role of competitive strategies and game theory; the experience of special markets, for example energy. Professionals in domestic and international organisations will find this subject an aid to the formulation of strategies.
ECE5076-Computer vision:The unit develops and examines the theoretical and empirical relationships between the structure of industries, the behaviour of enterprises and market performance. The fundamental principles are applied to the advanced analysis of various forms of firms' interaction: entry deterrence, collusion, product differentiation, advertising, RandD, price discrimination, vertical integration. Welfare and policy issues will be discussed with the help of applied theory and empirical approach. In this respect recent journal articles will be used to analyse the concepts.
ECE5077-Advanced computing techniques:This unit will be organised around a series of workshops to introduce the research methodology to students. Different fields of applied economics such as reveal preference theory, experiment economics, industrial organisation, fiscal and monetary theory and financial economics will then be introduced to showcase the research frontiers of applied economics. Students will then be required to select a project in their area of specialisation and submit a 9000 word report and an oral presentation. Students will work closely with a personal supervisor to ensure that the research paper locates and masters new knowledge and demonstrates originality in both research content and intellectual argument.
ECE5084-Biomechanics of human musculoskeletal systems:Game theoretic analysis is fundamental to understanding modern business strategies and forms the basic infrastructure of strategy courses. The unit teaches the basic tools of Game Theory, and introduces a structured way to think about business interactions. Game theory originated in the middle of the twentieth century as the general study of strategic interactions and has found applications in a wide variety of contexts including economics, psychology, politics and evolutionary biology. It is this generality that is the source of its power. Accordingly, the unit develops game theory broadly with applications to strategic situations, including business as well as more general contexts.
ECE5086-Medical imaging technology:We analyse the transformation in the Asian economies with specific reference to the structure of industry, factor migration and urbanisation, the transfer of technology and related institutional changes. The role of government in these processes will be examined and evaluated against selected theories of economic growth and development. How development theory has interacted or not interacted with solutions to practical problems is considered through a case study approach which includes an analysis of Australian aid funding.
ECE5087-Medical technology innovation:This unit applies microeconomic principles to study how consumers and firms make decisions to achieve their goals. In particular, it analyses how firms position themselves in the market and how they form their output and price decisions on the basis of their understanding of demand and supply conditions, market structures, and strategic interaction with other firms. Finally this unit looks at particular aspects of market failure and the role of government in relation to market failure.
ECE5094-Project A:The focus is on practical questions about how to achieve national economic growth and control inflation in the context of a global economy, with special attention to policy formulation and implementation and the dilemmas facing decision-makers in the government and private sectors. Macroeconomic forecasting and the methods for analysing the short-term and long-term trends are also considered. Australia's experience during the last two decades, in particular the impact of the Asian Currency Crisis, are examined closely.
ECE5095-Project B:The unit introduces basic economic principles and concepts and discusses economic interdependence notions and gains from trade and globalisation; the role of institutions in promoting and facilitating these concepts in the international economy; theories of trade, incorporating notions of absolute and comparative advantage; modern trade theory and its extensions; empirical evidence which highlight trade theory strengths and limitations; investigation and analysis of welfare effects of trade, using both theory and evidence to answer contentious concerns: does trade make the poor even poorer; are trade restrictions necessary to protect jobs; do larger trade benefits accrue to developed countries more than developing countries?
ECE5881-Real-time system design:This unit focuses on the topics of international finance and trade. This includes the importance of international finance, the determination of exchange rates, foreign investment, parity conditions, hedging and speculation in foreign exchange markets, foreign exchange markets-spot, forward, futures and options markets, the balance of payments accounts and the effect of macroeconomic policies on trade balance.
ECE5882-Advanced electronics design:This unit examines the scope for policy to improve macroeconomic performance. It will cover: the cyclical behaviour of the economy; the role of monetary, fiscal and exchange rate policies in influencing economic activities; the implementation and operation of monetary policy; the relationship of exchange rates to monetary policy; major factors determining movements in interest rates and exchange rates in both the intermediate and long terms.
ECE5883-Advanced signal processing:Students will develop sound knowledge of the differing views of the firm and industry. Topics include: the firm within a capitalist economic system; the macroeconomic constraints on the firm; the market structural constraints on the firm; differing perspectives of the firm - the conventional economic, technological view, the accounting, management and marketing views, the recent transaction costs and new classical view; how these different areas explain current issues such as downsizing and electronic commerce.
ECE5884-Wireless communications:Microeconomics: scarcity; economic choice; economic systems; economic ideology; demand and supply analysis; consumer behaviour and elasticity; costs of production and profit maximisation; perfect competition and monopoly. Macroeconomics: aggregate demand and aggregate supply; Keynesian versus Neoclassical approaches; the money market and monetary policy; the government budget deficit and fiscal policy; the foreign exchange market and exchange rate policy; unemployment and inflation; the current and capital accounts.
ECE5885-Energy efficient lighting:The unit introduces basic economic principles and concepts and discusses economic interdependence notions and gains from trade and globalisation; the role of institutions in promoting and facilitating these concepts in the international economy; theories of trade, incorporating notions of absolute and comparative advantage; modern trade theory and its extensions; empirical evidence which highlight trade theory strengths and limitations; investigation and analysis of welfare effects of trade, using both theory and evidence to answer contentious concerns: does trade make the poor even poorer; are trade restrictions necessary to protect jobs; do larger trade benefits accrue to developed countries more than developing countries?
ECE5886-Smart grids:Microeconomics: scarcity; economic choice; economic systems; economic ideology; demand and supply analysis; consumer behaviour and elasticity; costs of production and profit maximisation; perfect competition and monopoly. Macroeconomics: aggregate demand and aggregate supply; Keynesian versus Neoclassical approaches; the money market and monetary policy; the government budget deficit and fiscal policy; the foreign exchange market and exchange rate policy; unemployment and inflation; the current and capital accounts.
ECE6881-Real-time system design:Topics include the supply of and the demand for labour, education and training, the operation of labour markets, including the role of institutions in the labour market, wage relativities, disadvantaged groups in the labour market, and the role of trade unions. Also included is a study of the macroeconomic implications of wage changes and a consideration of wages policy. Special attention is given to the current labour market conditions.
ECE6882-Advanced electronics design:This unit focuses on the topics of international finance and trade. This includes the importance of international finance; the balance of payments accounts; the mechanisms for financing international trade; the effect of macroeconomic policies on trade balance; the determination of exchange rates; the operation of foreign exchange markets and alternative exchange rate systems; foreign investment; foreign exchange risk and operating exposure.
ECE6883-Advanced signal processing:Macroeconomic policy as it affects the open economy; policy consequences of consumption and investment decisions; analysis of policies with respect to the real exchange rate and trade balance; policy responses to assets price movements; policy goals under different international monetary systems; the economic benefits and costs of optimum currency areas; how policy-makers in Australia try to stabilise the economy.
ECE6884-Wireless communications:This subject reviews the contemporary microeconomic principles in the context most relevant to business people. Market processes, demand patterns, cost structures, market conditions, pricing policies, and the impact of regulation on business decisions are discussed. Cases and problems from the prescribed text, Australian media, and online resources illustrate how economic concepts can be applied to specific industries. Analytical techniques and quantitative tools link the concepts to measurement and managerial decision-making.
ECE6885-Energy efficient lighting:This unit is designed to analyse the effect of money on key economic variables such as interest rates, inflation, output, and on the workings of the banking sector. In addition, the unit examines the roles played by commercial banks and the Central Bank in the process of money creation and the implementation of monetary policy. The unit uses an economic approach to allow analysis of policy decisions.
ECE6886-Smart grids:This unit deals with economic and policy issues related to energy, natural resources and sustainable development. Topics covered include theoretical and practical issues relating to energy and natural resource demand, supply and pricing, and the sustainable development framework. It will also consider different energy sources such as renewable energy and increasing energy efficiency of existing resources. The unit will address a wide range of policies dealing with energy and environmental problems in a national and international context.
ENG0001-Engineering continuous professional development:Road safety, traffic surveys, the hierarchy of roads (briefly), road network design, road capacity and level of service, traffic flow in residential streets, unsignalised intersection design, signalised intersection design for interface with arterial roads, pedestrian and bicycle facilities, planning and design for commercial vehicles, planning and design for public transport, local area traffic management, traffic impact analysis, land use planning process, environmental considerations and the application of advanced technology.
ENG0010-IITB research preparation:This unit is designed to build upon the earlier units in the Bachelor of Civil and Environmental Engineering Program to enhance students' professional capabilities in design as expected of a graduate civil/environmental engineer. Students are expected to apply the knowledge and experience gained in the various sub-discipline areas of civil and environmental engineering units to a specific project. This unit will also help develop a range of more generic skills including teamwork and communication. Students will work in small groups to plan and develop designs relevant to the various sub-disciplinary areas of the course. Designs will typically involve analysis, calculations and preparation of engineering drawings plus communication of the process via written and oral reports.
ENG0011-Eng short study programs:This unit comprises a special study in a field of engineering with a content negotiated and agreed between a student and the faculty. The unit is offered as a vehicle to enable an excellent student to undertake studies that would otherwise not fit within the scope of a standard fourth level. The content of the study will vary from student to student. Where necessary, a safety audit and/or risk assessment will be conducted prior to the commencement of work. The student will be expected to prepare a proposal for the study and an analysis of any special requirements to ensure that the scope and expected outcomes of the study are manageable and agreed between the student and the supervisor.
ENG1000-Branch Selection:This unit, taken in addition to ENG4001, is an extension of a special study in a field of engineering with a content negotiated and agreed between a student and the faculty. The unit is offered as a vehicle to enable an excellent student to undertake studies that would otherwise not fit within the scope of a standard fourth level. Where necessary, a safety audit and/or risk assessment will be conducted prior to the commencement of work. The student will be expected to prepare a proposal for the study and an analysis of any special requirements to ensure that the scope and expected outcomes of the study are manageable and agreed between the student and the supervisor.
ENG1002-Engineering design: Cleaner, safer, smarter:Students will undertake an investigation into civil and environmental engineering problems. The projects will be industry-related. However, university-based projects may be acceptable. The students are expected to use various kinds of study (e.g. laboratory work, field studies and literature survey) as required. Teamwork is highly encouraged in the project.
ENG1003-Engineering mobile apps:Introduction to typical issues related to catchment/stream complexes; rural and urban land uses and their potential water quantity and quality impacts. Basic principles of water quantity modelling and use of industry standard computer models. Water quality management options including improved land management, water demand management, planning frameworks, and environmental and social aspects. Environmental and social aspects will be covered.
ENG1005-Engineering mathematics:Introduce fundamentals and role of road engineering theory and practice. Examine a number of issues related to the planning, design and construction of roads, including; road planning, the road traffic environment, design parameters, design form, road geometric design, pavement design and rehabilitation, geotechnical issues related to pavement performance, pavement drainage, road construction and road environmental safety.
ENG1021-Spatial communication in engineering:Students will undertake in-depth investigation into civil and environmental engineering projects usually extended from projects initiated in ENG4201. The projects will be industry-related or research-based. The students are expected to use various skills developed during their studies (e.g. laboratory work, field studies, numerical modelling, theoretical analysis etc) as required to carry out long-term data collection, analysis and reporting. Students will need to consult potential supervisors and obtain approval from the department prior to enrolment. The project outcomes are to be summarised in a major report, a technical paper and an oral presentation. Group projects are possible depending on the nature of the project and the supervision and industry situation.
ENG1060-Computing for engineers:Introduction to biomedical engineering from the perspective of engineering-based technologies of sensing and imaging. Topics include: basis of light and radiation, principles of synchrotron operation, practical study at the Australian synchrotron, human physiology for engineers, principles of detection and sensing of signals, biomedically relevant properties and phenomena. The unit begins with an intensive lecture series culminating in a mid-semester examination. During this time project teams are formed and project proposals are developed. Project work continues with groups and individuals combining projects, allocated resources, knowledge and skills to develop a biomedical sensing device.
ENG1090-Foundation mathematics:The unit consists of a review of probabilistic foundations for data analysis including probability, random variables, expectation, distribution functions, important probability distributions, central limit theorem, random vectors, conditional distributions and random processes. Students will develop the foundations of statistical inference including estimation, confidence intervals, maximum likelihood, hypothesis testing, least-squares and regression analysis. A selection of more advanced topics in probability, random modelling and statistical inference will also be presented. The material will be taught in the context of real engineering problems taken from multiple engineering disciplines. A widely used numerical computing environment will be used extensively throughout the unit.
ENG1210-Introduction to structural engineering:The goal of this unit is to impart an evidence-based methodology for building scalable startups that students can use for the rest of their careers, whether they are starting a new business or working in established organisations. For a new business, the goal is acquiring investor funding. In a corporate environment, the methodology will help the organisation start new businesses and allocate their internal resources (time, technology, and talent) more efficiently. The unit will be taught in a hands-on way that engages student teams by requiring them to develop hypotheses and then test those hypotheses outside the classroom. Throughout the semester, teams will modify their business models based on feedback from potential customers, and can then decide if there is a worthwhile business to be built. The unit does not include the execution of the business models.
ENG1211-Introduction to engineering systems:This unit provides students a unique opportunity to work on a real-world, engineering design problem in a multidisciplinary team environment. The project will involve a critical assessment of the design problem from engineering as well as non-engineering perspectives. The project work rely on using creative problem solving and decision-making skills and modern project management tools for developing practical solutions to the design problem. The outcomes of the project will be communicated via presentations, demonstrations and reports. This project may be undertaken either within the faculty or with external partners. This is the first part of a two-unit project sequence.
ENG2000-Engineering load - branch selection pending:Together with ENG5003, this unit provides students a unique opportunity to work on a real-world, engineering design problem in a multidisciplinary team environment. The project will involve a critical assessment of the design problem from engineering as well as non-engineering perspectives. The project work rely on using creative problem solving and decision-making skills and modern project management tools for developing practical solutions to the design problem. The outcomes of the project will be communicated via presentations, demonstrations and reports. This project may be undertaken either within the faculty or with external partners. This is the second part of a two-unit project sequence.
ENG2001-E3007 - Branch Selection:This unit provides a challenging opportunity for students to pursue an independent, self-guided research project aimed at advancing the body of knowledge relevant to the topic. The project will involve a critical assessment of the current literature and will include one or a combination of design, development, and theoretical or experimental investigation work. The project plan and its outcomes will be communicated to a wider audience via a proposal, oral presentations, a progress report and a technical paper. The project may be undertaken either within the faculty or externally with a company or research organisation. This is the first part of a two-unit project.
ENG2005-Advanced engineering mathematics:Together with ENG5005, this unit provides a challenging opportunity for students to pursue an independent, self-guided research project aimed at advancing the body of knowledge relevant to the topic. The project will involve a critical assessment of the current literature and will include one or a combination of design, development, and theoretical or experimental investigation work. The project plan and its outcomes will be communicated to a wider audience via a proposal, oral presentations, a progress report and a technical paper. The project may be undertaken either within the faculty or externally with a company or research organisation. This is the second part of a two-unit project.
ENG2121-Diagnostics for cultural heritage:The aim of this unit is to provide an overview of the various aspects of translation and commercialisation of medical technologies in order to provide specific training that is highly relevant to the medical technology industry. The topics covered in the unit include policy and the International and national regulatory environment, medical device reimbursement, bioethics, intellectual property, product development and manufacturing, and health economics. The topics will be taught in part by practitioners who are highly skilled in their fields. The course material will be provided in the form of lectures and analysis of case studies.
ENG2203-Concrete structures:Students undertake a self-guided learning task in the form of a project in this unit. Projects will consist of either a design, theoretical or experimental investigation in the broad area of energy and sustainability. The project may be undertaken within the School or externally with a company or research organization.
ENG2204-Water systems:The unit consists of a review of probabilistic foundations for data analysis including probability, random variables, expectation, distribution functions, important probability distributions, central limit theorem, random vectors, conditional distributions and random processes. Students will develop the foundations of statistical inference including estimation, confidence intervals, maximum likelihood, hypothesis testing, least-squares and regression analysis. A selection of more advanced topics in probability, random modelling and statistical inference will also be presented. The material will be taught in the context of real engineering problems taken from multiple engineering disciplines. A widely used numerical computing environment will be used extensively throughout the unit.
ENG2206-Introduction to geoengineering:The goal of this unit is to impart an evidence-based methodology for building scalable startups that students can use for the rest of their careers, whether they are starting a new business or working in established organisations. For a new business, the goal is acquiring investor funding. In a corporate environment, the methodology will help the organisation start new businesses and allocate their internal resources (time, technology, and talent) more efficiently. The unit will be taught in a hands-on way that engages student teams by requiring them to develop hypotheses and then test those hypotheses outside the classroom. Throughout the semester, teams will modify their business models based on feedback from potential customers, and can then decide if there is a worthwhile business to be built. The unit does not include the execution of the business models; if student teams continue with their companies, they will assemble the appropriate operating plans, but only after they have attained a high degree of confidence that a viable business model exists.
ENG2207-Waterway engineering:The aim of this unit is to provide an overview of the various aspects of translation and commercialisation of medical technologies in order to provide specific training that is highly relevant to the medical technology industry. The topics covered in the unit include policy and the International and national regulatory environment, medical device reimbursement, bioethics, intellectual property, product development and manufacturing, and health economics. The topics will be taught in part by practitioners who are highly skilled in their fields. The course material will be provided in the form of lectures and analysis of case studies.
ENG5007-Translation and commercialisation of medical technologies:This unit, together with ENS5020, sets the context for considering the interactions and interdependence between nature and society and the basic principles of sustainability (social, economic and environmental), reflected in the Sustainable Development Goals. This unit (Global challenges and sustainability) provides the scientific basis for understanding contemporary global environmental change and its implications for society. Using the current global policy context in this area, it introduces the science of sustainability and the environment and its relevance to human well-being. It explores the key threats to sustainability, such as climate change, human migration, resource scarcity and emerging diseases. Core concepts covered in the unit include those of scale, systems and complexity. The unit teaches problem structuring methods, evidence-based approaches and methods of interpreting risk and uncertainty. Particular emphasis is placed on developing skills to integrate evidence into sustainability actions across multiple sectors, systems and scales. Theory will be complemented with group learning exercises, professional development activities and engagement with practitioners.
ENG5008-Work integrated learning:This unit, together with ENS5010, sets the context for considering the interactions and interdependence between nature and society and the basic principles of sustainability (social, economic and environmental), as reflected in the Sustainable Development Goals. This unit explores the values and perspectives of stakeholders alongside existing social structures that inform and affect how global challenges (as taught in unit ENS5010) are perceived and acted upon. Within society there are varied understandings of the relationships between the social, environmental and economic dimensions of sustainability. How sustainability is viewed and addressed is shaped by a diversity of multi-stakeholder perspectives and value systems along with their capacity to influence economic, regulatory, and policy regimes. This unit develops student's capacity to map and critically analyse: i) multi-stakeholders and social structures affecting sustainability; ii) different ideological, cultural, philosophical, psychological and disciplinary perspectives on sustainability; and, iii) their implications for policymaking, development of business cases, disciplinary research, and action.
ENG5881-Minor project:This unit examines the ways in which multiple forms of global change interact to drive the loss of biodiversity and ecosystem services. Solutions for securing biodiversity and ecosystem services and ensuring the protection and sustainable use of renewable resources are discussed. The unit uses relevant policies and management approaches by which biodiversity and ecosystems are governed, to evaluate the scientific evidence base underpinning these, and to identify gaps and future solutions. Example topics covered include integrated land-use planning, area- and species-based conservation strategies, biosecurity, and the development of sustainable harvest systems. Students will develop their understanding of the concepts and the skills needed for translating and integrating scientific evidence into decision-making for the protection of biodiversity and ecosystems. To enhance this understanding students will collaborate with peers and experts to develop their capacity to use biological knowledge and evidence in professional planning, management and conservation.
ENG6001-Advanced engineering data analysis:This unit provides a fundamental understanding of the science, policy and regulatory frameworks relating to the nexus between climate change, renewable and non-renewable energy resources. The physical science, climate models, projections and impacts are discussed along with national and international climate change policy and regulatory aspects. The unit will develop skills and understandings to translate the best contemporary climate change science into appropriate decision-making to preserve the physical, biological and economic systems upon which human security depends. Students will also gain understanding of climate change scenario development, vulnerability assessment and mitigation and adaptation responses at organisational, community and national levels. The unit will involve site visits to both renewable (solar arrays and wind farms) and non-renewable energy generation facilities. To facilitate these understandings visits will also be made, for example, to local government authorities in Victoria dealing with climate change vulnerabilities and assessments. The critical links between climate change, climate change impacts and human security are emphasised throughout the unit.
ENG6002-Engineering entrepreneurship:This unit will give students the knowledge and perspectives to manage water resources for human consumption, recreation and ecological values. The unit will commence by covering the basics of the hydrological cycle necessary to understand the factors controlling groundwater and surface water availability. Fundamentals of water quality and pollutants and their behaviour including, metals, organic contaminants, nutrients and algal blooms, pathogens and acidification (within the context of acid sulfate soils, mine drainage and ocean acidification) will also be addressed. Application of this knowledge will then be undertaken with case studies of contaminated systems, their assessment and remediation approaches. Finally the unit will cover the policy approaches used to manage water resources around the world including local and international examples of the development of water quality guidelines and frameworks. Current approaches used to balance the needs of ecological values and human water needs, will also be discussed with global and local examples.
ENG6007-Translation and commercialisation of medical technologies:Leadership for sustainable development requires the ability to influence societal change in a range of complex contexts at varying scales. Critical appreciation is needed of processes and mechanisms that affect and guide such change. The unit breaks down the complexity of change processes, examining the various components of societal change (rules, norms, values, knowledge), and the different dimensions of our social world (institutional, political, organisational, community), that either help or hinder sustainable development. The unit also explores a range of formal and informal processes of influence. Blending theoretical and practical insights, the unit will equip students with a suite of tools and mechanisms for influencing, supporting and facilitating change towards sustainable development at a variety of scales, drawing on science-policy partnerships, strategic planning, social and organisational learning and advocacy networks.
ENGGC1210-Intro to Structural Engineerin:Behavioural change approaches are an important, and often very cost effective, part of the mix of solutions to many sustainability and other public policy issues, such as water conservation, energy efficiency and immunisation. Considerable opportunities exist in this space, as comparatively little time and effort is usually invested in understanding the drivers of individual behaviour and designing solutions that target these drivers. With a mix of theoretical and practical work, this unit will enable students to understand individual behaviour in a way that identifies opportunities for change. It will take students through a process of unpacking public policy challenges and identifying real-life behavioural solutions. This involves prioritising behaviours and target audiences and understanding drivers of behaviour and potential solutions. Students will also learn to work collaboratively to design, test and evaluate behaviour change interventions.
ENGGC1211-Introduction to engineering systems:Building the capacity for effective leadership for sustainable development, at an individual, team and organisational scale, is one critical factor in addressing contemporary sustainability challenges. This unit frames 'leadership' as a process of influence that delivers a shared vision, aligns resources towards that vision and generates commitment to collective success. It recognises the importance of individual and group-based leadership to successful sustainable development outcomes, and focuses on those aspects of leadership that can be consciously developed, such as critical leadership skills and choosing appropriate strategies to match the context. The unit differs from traditional MBA-style leadership training in that it selects the theoretical frameworks/models, leadership roles, case studies and skill sets from the vast leadership literature that are most relevant to practitioners who seek to advance sustainable development. Starting with the concept of self-leadership, students will learn strategies and skills to develop their own leadership abilities as well as understand principles and practices for exerting influence and effecting change to support sustainable development. Students will also develop an individual leadership development plan, drawing on the concept of 'self-leadership', the principles and methods of leadership development and the types of knowledge, skills and networks typically needed for sustainable development leadership. This plan will set out developmental objectives and specific actions to improve leadership performance and capacity.
ENGGC2207-Waterway Engineering:ENS5900 (24 credit points) provides an opportunity for students to pursue a major academically-oriented piece of research in their chosen discipline during the advanced practice component of the course. A research thesis enables students to consolidate the theoretical knowledge and analytical skills acquired during the Master course in a research context. It requires independent learning and research by the student on a chosen topic related to the core and elective units offered in the specialisation. The unit primarily comprises independent research but includes some scheduled activities to enhance and develop transferable skills for success in research. Students are assessed primarily on the thesis. Students also undertake a reflective task to help develop and present novel perspectives on their research within the broader field of environment and sustainability. This authentic research experience represents a pathway to a PhD.
ENGGC3206-Civil and Environmental:ENS5901 (12 credit points), in combination with ENS5902, enables students to undertake research over two semesters during the advanced practice component of the course. ENS5901 provides an opportunity for students to pursue a major academically-oriented piece of research in their chosen discipline. This advanced and authentic experience will develop transferable research skills for professional practice across sectors and provides a pathway to a PhD. Over the course of ENS5901 and ENS5902, students are assessed based on a research thesis (90%) and a conceptual development/reflection task (10%). The format and requirements of the research thesis will vary according to the requirements of the specialisation. In addition to independent research, the unit includes some scheduled activities to enhance and develop transferable research skills in study design, analysis and academic writing. Students from any specialisation can undertake the unit if they fulfil the academic requirements and gain approval from an appropriate supervisor. ENS5901 with ENS5902 provide the same experience as ENS5900, but enable students to undertake research over two semesters.
ENGGC4201-Project:ENS5902 (12 credit points) is a continuation of ENS5901. ENS5902, in combination with ENS5901, enables students to undertake research over two semesters during the advanced practice component of the course. ENS5902 provides an opportunity for students to pursue a major academically-oriented piece of research in their chosen discipline. This advanced and authentic experience will develop transferable research skills for professional practice across sectors and provides a pathway to a PhD. Over the course of ENS5901 and ENS5902, students are assessed based on a research thesis (90%) and a conceptual development/reflection task (10%). The format and requirements of the research thesis will vary according to the requirements of the specialisation. In addition to independent research, the unit includes some scheduled activities to enhance and develop transferable research skills in study design, analysis and academic writing. Students from any specialisation can undertake the unit if they fulfil the academic requirements and gain approval from an appropriate supervisor. ENS5901 with ENS5902 provide the same experience as ENS5900, but enable students to undertake research over two semester
ENGGC4204-Road Engineering:ENS5910 (12 points) is the unit for students who wish to develop their professional competencies for working effectively in an applied interdisciplinary context. In this unit, teams composed of 3-5 students from different disciplines will work in association with a partner organisation from government, private industry or not-for-profit to identify, analyse and address 'real-world' complex, sustainability challenges. In their mixed-disciplinary teams, students will focus on a sustainability governance, policy or management topic that has been identified as a 'wicked problem' by a partner organisation associated with Monash Sustainable Development Institute (MSDI). With guidance from an MSDI supervisor and the partner organisation, the team will diagnose and analyse different perspectives, values at stake and politics of the project and will present a well-argued, plainly communicated and easily accessible analysis of the wicked problem. Within the team the students will negotiate and integrate their knowledge to develop a context specific and relevant solution to the identified sustainability challenge. The team will deliver a proposed solution implementation strategy to the partner organisation that includes mechanisms to create and enable the desired change. Students will communicate the project findings in the format specified by the academic supervisor and/or partner organisation. Part of the teams' interdisciplinary project outcomes will be a project report that is to be shared with the partner organisation. The unit includes some scheduled activities alongside the project work to enhance and develop professional skills. Students from any specialisation can undertake this unit if they fulfil the academic requirements and gain approval from their specialisation and unit coordinator.
ENV100-Economics and Environmental Management:This unit will develop statistical models for longitudinal and correlated data in medical research. The concept of hierarchical data structures will be developed, together with simple numerical and analytical demonstrations of the inadequacy of standard statistical methods. Normal-theory model and statistical procedures i.e. mixed linear models are explored using SAS or Stata statistical software packages. Extension to non-normal outcomes emphasising clinical research question. Case studies contrast generalised estimating equations and generalised linear mixed models. Limitations of traditional repeated measures analysis of variance and non-exchangeable models.
ENV104-Australian Environmental Issues:This unit will explore biostatistical applications of generalised linear models with an emphasis on underlying theoretical issues, and practical interpretation of the results of fitting these models. Relevant methods for 2 x 2 and 2 x k tables extended into logistic regression for a binary outcome as a special case of generalised linear modelling. Measures of association and modelling techniques for ordinal outcomes. Methods for analysing count data. Techniques for dealing with matched data e.g. from case control studies.
ENV1800-Environmental science: A Southeast Asian perspective:Biostatistical applications of survival analysis with emphasis on underlying theoretical and computational issues, practical interpretation and communication of results. Case studies, students will explore the various methods for handling survival data. Kaplan-Meier curve definition and its extension, survival prospects using logrank test and confidence intervals for relative risks, graphical displays and assessing underlying assumptions. Mantel-Haenszel method's connection to survival analysis. Cox proportional hazards model for handling continuous covariates. Various extensions of this model, including time-dependent covariates, multiple outcomes and censored linear regression model.
ENV2022-Environmental sampling and monitoring:Students will be exposed to real-life biostatistical problems in an academic health research environment, industry or government under supervision by an experienced biostatistician with a staff or honorary appointment at Monash University. They will be allocated, or may select, 1 or more research projects, and required to make regular contact with the associated health research personnel together with the supervisor. Under the guidance of the supervisor, the student will assume responsibility for statistical aspects of the relevant research project(s), and perform an analysis of appropriate complexity for the project then present and interpret the results in a written and oral form.
ENV245-Global and Regional  Sustainability:The unit begins with a brief review of elementary molecular biology: DNA, RNA, the central dogma, meiosis, mitosis and genes. Some fundamental mathematical tools for statistical analysis are also reviewed. The course then covers sequence alignment, database searching, Mendelian genetics and techniques for discovering connections between genes and disease: association, linkage and variance components studies.
ENV2726-Ecosystems and bioresources:This unit provides a thorough introduction to the concepts and methods of modern Bayesian statistical methods with particular emphasis on practical applications in biostatistics. Comparison of Bayesian concepts involving prior distributions with classical approaches to statistical analysis, particularly likelihood based methods. Applications to fitting hierarchical models to complex data structures via simulation from posterior distributions using Markov chain Monte Carlo techniques (MCMC) with the WinBUGS software package.
ENV2747-Soil science:This unit involves the study of basic probability and calculus-based methods of underpinning probability distributions and parameter estimation.
ENV2757-Environmental health:This unit will involve students being exposed to a real-life biostatistical problem arising in an academic health research environment or industry. They will be supervised by an experienced biostatistician with a staff or honorary appointment at Monash University. Students will be allocated, or may select, one research project to be involved in, and will be required to make regular contact with the associated health research personnel together with the supervisor. The student will perform an analysis of appropriate complexity for the project and present and interpret the results in a written form to the health researcher and supervisor.
ENV2792-Mathematical models of the environment:This unit examines the colonial history that produced the policies informing international health practise and the contemporary issues that arise out of this history. A range of topics are considered including problematic ambiguities hidden within the term "global health"; contemporary approaches to international development; geopolitics and the neocolonial features of the current international health landscape; pandemics and complex humanitarian crises; and approaches to justice, exploitation and vulnerability. Specific attention will be given to recent debates concerning ethical issues in international health research.
ENV3022-Environmental technology:This unit examines the current and evolving role of the paramedic within communities with a specific focus on the theoretical and practical aspects of health communication. In addition to this, an understanding of paramedic specific legal, ethical and professional requirements will be explored. The importance of self-care and wellness for paramedics, who work in a very dynamic field and have to be able to deal with adverse and often potentially dangerous situations, will be addressed. Students will be introduced to the standard approach to patient assessment, the patient centred interview, safe practices and the use of key pieces of equipment for patient assessment and treatment.
ENV310-Environment and Transport Planning:The patient centred interview and assessment of patient vital signs is at the core of this unit. The unit also expands on the concepts of professionalism and effective communication, which were developed in EPP1011. Essential clinical and assessment skills will be developed in the clinical laboratory and simulation settings. Students will also be introduced to the concept of patient acuity, tools for assessment, and referral pathways. Paramedic clinical practice will be contextualised through supervised clinical experience with an emergency ambulance service.
ENV3639-Minerals and energy:This unit builds on the foundation of the paramedic clinician and expands on the patient assessment skills developed in clinical concepts 1. This unit's primary focus is on the recognition and management of the unconscious and cardiac arrest patient. Students will gain an understanding of the major causes of an altered conscious state and develop the skills required to safely and effectively manage a patient in cardiac arrest. In the practical setting students will practice advanced airway management, drug administration and defibrillation. In addition, this unit encourages students to explore the concept of evidence based practice and gain a deeper understanding of the evolution of practice in relation to resuscitation. Paramedic clinical practice will be contextualised through supervised clinical experience with an emergency ambulance service.
ENV3711-Natural area management:Paramedics encounter an abundance of pharmaceutical agents within their practice. This unit is designed to assist students to develop foundational knowledge, skills and clinical judgements regarding pharmacotherapy within community-based emergency health. The social, political, legal and ethical implications of drug use and abuse within the individual, family and community will also be examined.
ENV3737-Tools for environmental management:This unit continues to develop the role of the paramedic as a clinician by extending clinical examination and decision making skills that were introduced in previous clinical units. The unit covers commonly encountered chronic, acute, and life threatening cardiovascular problems across the lifespan. The unit will be both theory, and case based. It will include clinical skills laboratories and simulation to develop essential clinical skills, clinical problem solving and decision making competencies. This will be supported by a significant theoretical component including pathophysiology and ECG interpretation. The scope of the unit includes the development of skills needed to provide general health care as well as care at an advanced life support level.
ENV3761-Waste management and remediation:This unit continues to develop the role of the paramedic as a clinician. It will build on a model of paramedic clinical competence developed in prerequisite units and will provide the context to support the implementation of knowledge and skills necessary for effective patient care. Students will have the opportunity to practice and develop their clinical skills in the management of patients with acute health conditions through clinical placements with ambulance service providers and other health agencies. The unit will also place an emphasis on the insightfulness that is required to deliver quality patient care through a range of reflective tasks that challenge the student to consider their practice from a variety of alternative perspectives.
ENV4202-Civil and environmental engineering practice:This unit continues to develop the role of the paramedic as a clinician by extending clinical examination and decision making skills that were introduced in previous clinical units. The unit addresses injury and injury prevention across the lifespan, with specific reference to commonly encountered acute and chronic musculoskeletal conditions, injury. The unit will be case based, and will include clinical skills laboratories and simulation to develop essential clinical skills, clinical problem solving and decision making competencies. The scope of the unit includes developing the skills needed to provide general health care as well as care at an advanced life support level.
ENVGC3761-Waste mgt & remediation:Research unit for PhD or MEngSc(Research) students in Chemical Engineering
ERU0001-Research in chemical engineering:This unit introduces GIS (Geographical Information Systems) for environmental science, and discusses basic principles, techniques and applications of GIS in the field of environmental management and research. Subjects covered include basics of GIS, spatial data sources, spatial data quality, spatial data analysis, terrain modelling, hydrological modelling, habitat potential mapping, land suitability modelling, spatial analysis of landscape values and decision support systems. Case studies and hands-on practice allow students to gain experience in the use of GIS in environmental management.
ERU0002-Research in civil engineering:This unit will give a broad introduction to geophysical methods for students interested in the application of physics and mathematics for mineral exploration and general earth studies. Methods for gathering, processing and interpreting gravity, magnetic, seismic, electromagnetic and radiometric data are presented in order to provide geological constraints for mineral exploration and regional mapping. This unit includes an introduction to regional synthesis and structural geology.
ERU0003-Research in electrical and computer systems engineering:This unit covers the planetary scale structure and dynamics of the Earth, and the fundamental processes which create 'geology' as a natural consequence of Earth evolution. The unit will provide an understanding of the subtle interplay between Earth structure, planetary cooling, geomagnetism, mantle convection, plate tectonics, continental drift, heat flow, earthquakes, melt generation etc, and the diverse measurements/ models needed to gain this understanding including seismicity, seismic tomography, gravity, changing sea level, post-glacial rebound etc. It will concentrate on an integrated, quantitative, model-based approach to the geosciences.
ERU0004-Research in materials engineering:This unit will provide an opportunity for more numerate students to investigate advanced topics in geophysical surveys, system development, imaging and analysis. It will cater for cross-discipline studies in physics, mathematics, electronics, IT, and geospatial technology. Students will gain an appreciation of innovation in instrumentation and application of new technology for sub-surface imaging.
ERU0005-Research in mechanical engineering:This unit covers material on the petrology and geochemistry of the Earth's mantle and crust, their melting to generate silicate magmas and the emplacement of these magmas in and on the crust; also the basics of trace element and isotope geochemistry applied to the understanding of these processes. Metamorphic petrology extends the geochemical and petrological principles to understanding the formation of metamorphic rocks and using those rocks to elucidate processes in the Earth's crust.
ERU0006-Research in maintenance management engineering:Movement of water in environment, and roles played by water in environmental processes, discussing behaviour of water from condensation in lower atmosphere through to groundwater and river flow. The role of vegetation in intercepting and redirecting water at surface. The processes of infiltration, percolation, groundwater flow, storm flow and base flow production. Instances of major hydrological change, case studies of large-scale deforestation or desertification, habitat or biodiversity decline, including human use of water and landscape. Observation and measuring techniques employed in hydrologic research are introduced in practical class.
ERU0007-Research in telecommunications engineering:Remote sensing has become one of the important and widely applied methods for environmental and earth resource monitoring and evaluation. The information extracted from remotely sensed images may be used in many ways, e.g. as a basis for mapping land use/cover, for understanding environmental processes and for estimating biophysical variables. This unit will introduce the basic concepts and principles of remote sensing, and prepare students with image interpretation and digital image processing skills with an emphasis on the use of remote sensing imagery for vegetation, atmosphere, geology, soils and landform analysis.
ERU0008-Research in biomedical engineering:Sustainable land management is a critical challenge facing society. Soils are the drive train of terrestrial ecosystems, supporting both natural and agricultural systems. This unit explores relationships of soil development to landscape processes, and Australian soil management in the context of past, present and future environmental change. Topics such as salinity, coastal and wetland soils, soil carbon and soil fertility are discussed. Students are presented with a number of soil problems and land management issues, and explore alternative land uses and sustainable land management techniques for Australian environments.
ERU0009-Research in transport and traffic engineering:This unit introduces a range of methods used to reconstruct past environments at different temporal scales over the past several hundred to thousands of years. These reconstructions provide baseline data to understand and infer the human contribution to several key environmental concerns, including climate change, biomass burning, biodiversity and vegetation dynamics, water availability and quality, and the management and restoration of natural, Indigenous and historical landscapes. Emphasis is placed on hands-on, technical experience to provide fundamental understanding of environmental issues of current relevance to Australia. The unit involves a required 2-3 day field excursion that may be held in O-week or early in the semester (the unit coordinator will advise students of specific dates in January or February).
ERU0010-Research in advanced process design:Urbanisation has profound influences on cities that causes local changes in climate including increased temperature (the Urban Heat Island). Additional impacts include reduced moisture, modified urban waterways, and reduced vegetation. Moreover, urbanisation is linked to hazards such as poor air quality and heat related illnesses. These matters are of particular concern in the context of climate change. This unit will provide an understanding of the relevant physical processes and impacts, along with the associated technological, and socio-political contexts and examine potential solutions by undertaking a sustainable cities approach including the concept of a water sensitive city as an approach to heat mitigation and climate change adaptation. Emphasis is placed on practical, theoretical, observational, analytical and modeling skills developed through lectures, practical's and project work.
ERU0011-Research in pulp and paper technology:The Earth has undergone many fundamental changes since its formation. This unit examines a number of geologically-significant events, including: the formation of the crust, mantle, and core; evolution of the atmosphere and biosphere; supercontinent formation; Snowball Earth; changes to global weathering; and eruption of Large Igneous Provinces. Evidence for these events in the rock record and their impacts on the biosphere and atmosphere will be assessed. The unit will also highlight uncertainties and competing theories that relate to these geological episodes.
ERU0013-Research in mechatronics engineering:Introduction to spreadsheeting. Descriptive statistics. Elementary probability. Discrete and continuous probability distributions. Statistical inference. Simple linear regression and correlation. Forecasting and time series. Index numbers.
ERU0014-Research in biological engineering:Sampling designs and inference; confidence limits and tests on means, proportion, differences. Cross tabulation, with chi square. Simple and multiple linear regression: regression with non-linear terms; regression with dummy variables. Introduction to analysis of variance. Uses Excel.
ESC3162-Ore deposit geology and global metallogeny:This unit provides a formal treatment of the core principles underlying econometric and statistical analysis, with particular focus given to likelihood-based inference. Topics covered include the likelihood principle and maximum likelihood estimation; minimum variance unbiased estimation; maximum likelihood asymptotic distribution theory; likelihood-based hypothesis testing; and quasi-maximum likelihood inference. The theoretical developments are supplemented by numerical results produced using computer simulation. Consideration is also given to the numerical optimisation techniques used to implement likelihood-based procedures in practice.
ESC3180-Field mapping:This unit presents econometric models and techniques that are widely used in modern applied econometrics. Emphasis is placed on models that address the special problems that arise when analysing microeconomic data, that is, data at the level of individual consumers, households and firms. The topics covered include modelling discrete dependent variables, modelling data sets that have both a cross-section and a time-series dimension and conducting inference in models in which the dependent variable is jointly determined with one or more of the regressors. The models taught in this unit are widely used in empirical work in economics, finance and marketing.
ESC3190-Hydrogeology and environmental geoscience:To provide a grounding in the mathematics and statistics of short term insurance risk.
ESC3201-Deformation of the crust:Financial mathematics under uncertainty will apply the ideas of interest rates, present values, cash flow modelling and profit testing in the context of certain payments and payments dependent on individual deaths or other uncertain risk. We will also introduce stochastic modelling techniques applied to actuarial and financial contexts. Students will cover the topics of present values and accumulated values, equations of value, markov modelling, survival models, life tables and contingent products.
ESC3232-The dynamic biosphere: Changing fauna and flora through geological time:This unit introduces students to the empirical analysis of relationships between economic variables. The approach is based on linear regression theory, and emphasises 'hands on' data analysis. Topics studied will include properties of least squares estimators, hypothesis testing, the choice of appropriate functional form, the use of dummy variables, issues around modelling survey data and the problems of serial correlation, heteroscedasticity and multicollinearity.
ESC3259-Geographical information systems (GIS) for environmental management:This unit provides an introduction to modern time series methods. The topics covered include a review of stationary, univariate ARMA models, stochastic and deterministic trends, testing for unit roots, vector auto regressions, multivariate cointegration and error correction models.
ESC3311-Applied geophysics:The specification, estimation and testing of asset pricing models, including the capital asset pricing model and extensions; the statistical characteristics of financial data emphasising skewness, kurtosis and volatility aspects; volatility models such as ARCH models of financial time series, with applications to stock prices, derivatives, and exchange rates including the forecast performance of these models.
ESC3332-Global dynamics and crustal evolution:Econometrics students of honours standard are invited to enrol in this unit, which serves as an orientation for honours. The purpose is to obtain a broader appreciation of the role of the honours programme and the use of econometrics and statistics in business and government. Students attend regular meetings with staff members and visiting professionals and academics.
ESC3340-Geophysics: Special topics:This unit covers modelling of business processes involving risk and uncertainty. It has a particular emphasis on the principles of decision making under risk and the use of Monte Carlo simulation methods for complex business operations. It covers applications in the management of manufacturing and services, including inventory control. Training is provided in the programming language Matlab and the simulation package Simul8.
ESC3421-Igneous and metamorphic processes and geochemistry:Introduction to multivariate statistical techniques for the analysis of survey data and models to analyse the discrete choice behaviour of individuals. Topics include multivariate analysis of variance, principal components analysis, factor analysis, correspondence analysis and models of discrete choice behaviour. Statistical software and case studies will be utilised during this subject and students will apply the techniques to a variety of practical problems.
ESC3545-Environmental hydrology:Mathematical definition of options and other financial derivatives; probability models; mathematical models of random processes; applications; numerical methods; Monte Carlo methods.
ESC3552-Remote sensing of the environment:The modelling and valuation of cash flows dependent on death, survival, or other uncertain risks.
ESC3788-Soils, landscapes and their management:Reliable forecasts of business and economic variables must often be obtained against a backdrop of structural change in markets and the economy. This unit introduces methods suitable for forecasting in these circumstances including the decomposition of time series, exponential smoothing methods, ARIMA modelling, and regression with auto-correlated disturbances. Students can expect to enhance their computer skills with exercises using R.
ESC3887-Designing urban futures: Urban climate, water and adaptation:This unit introduces extensions of linear regression models for handling a wide variety of data analysis problems. Three extensions will be considered: generalised linear models for handling counts and binary data; mixed-effect models for handling data with a grouped or hierarchical structure; and non-parametric regression for handling non-linear relationships. All computing will be conducted using R.
ESC3900-Dynamic earth:The aim of this unit is to enable students to understand some of the complexities of interdisciplinary policy problems, particularly in the areas of sustainable development, and to enable them to design and undertake integrated modelling exercises for themselves. A complex systems science perspective will be adopted, introducing Agent-Based Modelling (ABM) as a flexible and powerful tool for exploring solutions to complex real-world problems. The ABM approach will be demonstrated and critically assessed through several interdisciplinary, integrated economy/sustainability models. Additionally, a flexible ABM modelling platform (NetLogo) will be introduced and demonstrated.
ESCHONS-Final grade Earth Sciences honours:A unit of study in a special field of econometrics in which no formal unit is available. The supervisor will prescribe a list of references, consult frequently with the student and set whatever written work and examinations are deemed appropriate.
FIT1001-Computer systems:This unit introduces programming fundamentals and the Python language to students. The unit provides a foundational understanding of program design and implementation of algorithms to solve simple problems. Fundamental programming control structures, built in and complex datatypes and mechanisms for modularity will be presented in Python. Topics covered will include basic input and output, program control structures, basic data structures and modular program structure. Problem-solving strategies and techniques for algorithm development, iteration and recursion, algorithm efficiency and the limitations of algorithms will be introduced.
FIT1002-Computer programming:This unit provides Creative Computing students with foundation skills relevant to all other Creative Computing (Multimedia Development) major units. This unit covers the basics of information graphic, digital graphic and motion graphic editing and introduces the fundamentals of web production with CSS and HTML 5. The unit content will introduce students to some of the key conceptual, technical and craft issues related to digital media production, and give them the opportunity to create media products based on their own practice based research.
FIT1003-IT in organisations:The unit introduces students to fundamentals of computer systems, networks and security. It provides basic knowledge of computer organisation and architecture, operating systems, networking architecture, technology and operation. It introduces the concepts of security goals for protecting common modern computer systems and communication networks from adversaries and the deployment of suitable countermeasures to achieve these goals.
FIT1004-Data management:This unit introduces programming fundamentals and the C++ language to students. The unit provides a foundational understanding of program design and implementation of algorithms to solve simple problems. Fundamental programming control structures, built in and complex data-types and mechanisms for modularity will be presented in C++. This unit also places a focus on object-oriented design principles, using object-oriented design as a process for program design and problem solving. More advanced object-oriented programming topics such as inheritance and polymorphism will also be covered. Other C++ fundamentals such as pointers and the STL will be presented, as will implementations of algorithms and data structures used in problem solving.
FIT1005-Networks and data communications:This unit provides a practical and theoretical introduction to what it means to be an IT professional today. Students will encounter a range of issues relevant to professional practice in the workplace, as well as an understanding of the wider responsibilities that professionals are called upon to uphold in society. Topics addressed include: organisational and professional communication; mindfulness; teamwork; the nature of the IT professions; the role of professional associations; problem solving and information use; cross-cultural awareness; personal and professional ethics and codes of practice.
FIT1006-Business information analysis:The world-wide web is one of the most widely-used platforms for building applications. Although all students can be assumed to be experienced users of the web, very few have any clear understanding of the technologies upon which the web is based, and the way in which these technologies affect web-based applications. This unit aims to give students a sound basic knowledge of the web and a range of issues which may be involved in web application development. It will take a strongly practical focus in examining the technology, design and implementation problems a developer needs to address in developing applications for real-world systems. The diversity of web applications means that there are a wide range of issues which may be relevant to the development of any given web site. The unit will aim to give breadth of coverage of these issues, rather than focusing in depth on any particular development task or any specific type of web application. The unit will take a strongly practical focus in examining the technology issues involved, and highlight the key issues which a developer needs to address in developing applications of this kind for real-world systems.
FIT1008-Introduction to computer science:This unit will provide students with an overview of the fundamental knowledge and skills required to code applications. The topics covered will include: the context of programming in an industrial SDLC, dealing with code 'plumbing', data, using API library classes, common business logic patterns and their implementation using control structures, methods and modularity, value and reference types, coding custom driver and concept classes, class inheritance, interfaces, multi-class applications.
FIT1009-e-Commerce systems:From online entertainment to paying our bills with smartphones, computers are at the centre of our lives today. How did this change come about, and what has it meant for us as individuals, as well as for society more broadly? Starting with its origins in the world of government, the military and corporations, this unit explores the lasting impression that IT continues to make within the spheres of popular culture, work, politics, the law, and leisure.
FIT1012-Website authoring:The unit introduces students to systems analysis and design as a problem solving activity, within the framework of a selected methodology. It will focus on contemporary industry practice; investigating understanding and documenting system requirements; a range of design and implementation activities; and professional skills required for systems development.
FIT1013-Digital futures: IT for business:This unit introduces students to the many concepts, tools and techniques for managing information technology projects. Exploring traditional and agile approaches for managing projects, topics include project lifecycles, project planning, project scheduling, team building, risk management, time and quality management. A case study approach will be used to provide learning opportunities, with an emphasis on the unique aspects of information technology projects.
FIT1016-Advanced project level 1:This unit provides a practical and theoretical introduction to what it means to be an IT professional today. Students will encounter a range of issues relevant to professional practice in the workplace, as well as an understanding of the wider responsibilities that professionals are called upon to uphold in society. Topics addressed include: organisational and professional communication; mindfulness; teamwork; the nature of the IT professions; the role of professional associations; problem solving and information use; cross-cultural awareness; personal and professional ethics and codes of practice.
FIT1019-Introduction to security:This unit introduces students to problem solving concepts and techniques fundamental to the science of programming. In doing this it covers problem specification, algorithmic design, analysis and implementation. Detailed topics include analysis of best, average and worst-case time and space complexity; introduction to numerical algorithms; recursion; advanced data structures such as heaps and B-trees; hashing; sorting algorithms; searching algorithms; graph algorithms; and numerical computing.
FIT1020-Fundamentals of information systems:This unit examines object-oriented systems modelling/design in greater depth than the prerequisite unit. The key disciplines of the Unified Process will be examined to set a context for analysis and design. Students will learn about static and dynamic modelling, and component-based design, using UML. Some common design patterns will be studied. Some topics about software architecture are examined. The unit prepares students to be able to design large systems such as will be implemented in their final year project unit or after graduation.
FIT1021-Information use and management:With increased globalisation, companies are facing stiffer competition and successful companies cannot afford to harbour inefficiencies if they are to be competitive. Furthermore, customers are becoming more demanding. Business processes must be designed to ensure that they are effective and meet customer requirements. A well-designed process will improve efficiency and deliver greater productivity. This unit will survey the analytical tools that can be used to model, analyse, understand and design business processes. Students will also gain hands-on experience in using simulation software as a tool for analysing business processes. Upon completion of this unit students should have acquired: an understanding of business organisations, their functional structure and the advantage of considering the process oriented view of organisations; a thorough knowledge of business processes, their structure and how processes fit in to the overall organisation objectives; knowledge of the analytical tools that can be used to model, analyse, understand, and design business processes; and skills to use simulation software as a tool for analysing business processes.
FIT1028-Business information technology and systems:This unit will introduce students to fundamentals of distributed networked environment. The unit provides knowledge of internetworking standards and understanding of the networking architecture, technology and operation.
FIT1029-Algorithmic problem solving:Algorithm analysis. Application and implementation of some common data structures: stacks, queues, lists, priority queues, tables, sets and collections. Data representations including: arrays, linked lists, heaps, trees (including balanced trees) and hashing. Design of application programs making use of common data structures. Design and implementation of new data structures. Study of advanced algorithms in areas such as: graph theory, pattern searching and data compression. Access to the University's computer systems through an Internet service provider is compulsory for off-campus students.
FIT1030-Introduction to business information systems:This unit will provide an introduction to the principles and concepts of database systems their organisation and management. The issues of physical and logical data description are addressed. Various data models,and a query language, are introduced. This will include planning, designing, using and implementing a data model using an enterprise-scale relational database system. Methods and techniques will also be presented to populate, retrieve, update and implement integrity features on data in the implemented database system.
FIT1031-Computers and networks:FIT2011 is the foundation unit for the Decision Making/Decision Support sequence of units. The unit will introduce the history of decision support systems (DSS), the types of decision support systems, the ideas of normative and descriptive models for decision making and management. Descriptive models of decision making will be based on behavioral decision theory and cognitive biases. Evolutionary systems development methods for DSS will be discussed in detail. Current practice in personal DSS, data warehousing, and business intelligence will be the underlying focus of the unit.
FIT1033-Foundations of 3D:This unit provides a focus on specialist tools and techniques that are used for developing content-rich interactive multimedia systems using Adobe Flash. This unit will cover fundamental multimedia principles, practical development processes, the integration of mixed-media assets, interactive design and animation for digital media and different technologies for product deployment. Students will create content-rich interactive CD-ROM and Web-based products using industry standard authoring tools and will gain an understanding of the role of digital media within the broader technology environment.
FIT1034-Principles of computer graphics:This unit, together with FIT3009, provides a top-to-bottom coverage of e-Business Systems. The emphasis in this unit is on the technologies used to implement e-Business Systems, ie. the low level of such systems. Although this unit is entirely suitable for a future developer of e-Business Systems, it is optimally targeted at future managers of such development. Thus practical exercises will be illustrative rather than industrial strength and technology issues will be given equal coverage with technology details. The primary aim of the unit is to familiarise students with as many of the currently popular e-Business technologies as possible so that their design and implementation decisions in the future will be informed and therefore produce successful systems with a high degree of probability.
FIT1035-Digital media authoring:This unit introduces formal languages, models of computation, and computational complexity. It looks at what computers can and cannot compute. Topics include finite state automata, regular expressions, grammars, pushdown automata, computable functions, Turing machines, polynomial-time reductions, complexity classes P and NP, and NP-completeness. Skills at writing formal proofs will be developed.
FIT1036-Enterprises and information:This unit is an introduction to the techniques, frameworks and conceptual processes comprising 3D design and production. 3D design is an area requiring significant expertise in the Multimedia Industry and there is currently an increasing demand for 3D artists and animators in advertising, film, television, information visualisation, education and the burgeoning games industry. Students will progress through the essential development processes required to produce 3D projects resulting in a professional end product and develop skills in conceptual development, storyboards, modelling, texturing, lighting and simple animation techniques for 3D projects.
FIT1037-Information management:This unit will provide a detailed understanding of the principles and practices involved in the creation and implementation of user-centred interaction with multimedia products and systems in a range of environments. Focus will be on the development of multimedia that enhances the efficiency, safety, functionality, usability and the aesthetic appeal of the user experience with multimedia at the interface between the user and the technology. Topics include: cognitive psychology, health and safety issues relating to interaction, interface design and implementation, evaluation and testing, affective aspects of technology, social implications of Human-Multimedia (Computer) interaction.
FIT1038-Introduction to information technology:The objective of this unit is to introduce students to the quantitative modelling techniques commonly used by executives in decision making and the application of IT tools to real-world decision making situations. Techniques covered typically include decision making under uncertainty, linear and nonlinear programming, sequential decision making, forecasting, and simulation. Upon the completion of this unit, the students are expected to recognise a complex decision making situation and to build a corresponding quantitative model. They are also expected to solve the model by applying techniques covered in this unit, to interpret results and finally, to provide analyst-type recommendations. The unit includes extensive use of advanced modelling tools available in Microsoft Excel as well as some VBA programming.
FIT1039-Web systems:This unit will provide students with fundamentals and theoretical foundations of network and systems administration. In addition, students will acquire practical skills needed to plan, provide and manage networks through laboratory activities and projects. This unit covers the following topics: Network administration scope, goals, and philosophy; IT system components and network structures; host computer and user management; standards, technology and protocols; managing networked devices; management issues: planning, implementation, fault diagnosis and performance; network documentation; security and administration; provision and management of common network and application services.
FIT1040-Digital futures: adventures in programming:This unit introduces the idea of standards and the standardisation process within the networking and data communications area. It follows on from the core unit FIT1005 Networks and Data Communications with a focus on the: types of standards commonly found in information technology; creation, application and maintenance of networking standards; network protocol families, their interdependencies and sequence of development; methods used to define and maintain standards; composition and operation of the various national and international standards organisations; review of some key networking protocol standards and implementation issues.
FIT1041-Research project 1:This unit will introduce students to advances in the distributed networked environment. The unit provides knowledge of internetworking protocols, QoS for critical applications, network management and TCP/IP operation. Access to the university's computer systems through an internet service provider is compulsory for distance education students.
FIT1042-Algorithms, computation and intelligence:This unit covers software organisation of multi-user and multi-tasking computers. The principles of operating systems are covered with reference to the underlying hardware requirements and are illustrated by case studies. Topics include operating system structure and services, multi-programming processes, CPU scheduling, memory management, device management, synchronisation, deadlocks, virtual memory and file systems. Furthermore this unit explores the internal mechanism of computers and how they are organised and programmed. Topics include machine arithmetic, micro programming, caches, translation look-aside buffers, RISC machines, and pipelined and parallel organisation.
FIT1043-Introduction to data science:This unit develops students understanding of and skills in professional software engineering practices at the personal level. Students experience work in a team environment and extend their programming skills by learning a new object oriented language and maintaining a system that is larger than their experience in prior units. Students develop skills in estimating, monitoring, reviewing and reporting on practical projects.
FIT1044-Mobile communications 1:This unit provides a theoretical and practical guide to the processes involved in producing audio-visual content designed for informational purposes. It will cover the processes involved in designing and documenting such a project in terms of the information delivered and the logistics involved, the actual recording and editing of media used in the project, including technical standards conventionally employed in video and DVD production. This unit will be delivered in a studio environment with an emphasis on collaborative learning.
FIT1045-Algorithms and programming fundamentals in python:This unit focuses on the nature of systems design and implementation as phases within the systems development process. By the end of the unit, students know the principles of how to design and implement a system, have the knowledge and skills required to conduct the main tasks typically required in these phases, and have experience in selecting and using the most suitable design and implementation techniques to develop a system from a requirements specification. Design topics include: Transition from Analysis to Design; Preparation and Selection of design alternatives; Definition of System architecture requirements; Design Strategies-Structured, Object-oriented, Design patterns; Object-oriented design modelling; Interface Design; Systems security and access controls. Implementation topics include: Implementation planning, testing overview; data conversion; training; documentation-user and help systems; systems installation; transition to maintenance.
FIT1046-Creative computing foundations:The unit covers server-side scripting: PHP structure, syntax and implementation. PHP scripting techniques for building dynamic web page interfaces for accessing server-side data stores. Implementing state-handling in a stateless environment. Strategies for enforcing data integrity, data security principles and techniques. Database and web page design concepts and their importance in commercial applications. Asynchronous Javascript and XML (Ajax). Client-side scripting: scripting language structure and syntax, scripting events and event handlers, creating objects and using built-in objects, objects and navigation, browser objects.
FIT1047-Introduction to computer systems, networks and security:Introduction to the principles of commercial e-commerce programming tasks. The unit explores the purposes and approaches in using scripting and markup languages in relation to the client-server paradigm. The role of both server-side and client-side code are examined. The unit will also build upon students previous study of database systems. Students will study the use of markup and scripting programming languages to connect to databases via a network.
FIT1048-Fundamentals of C++:Students on placement participate full time in a defined, graduate level role during a 22-week placement period at established partners of the Faculty of Information Technology industry based learning program including major global companies, leading Australian companies and worldwide consultancies. The students on placement apply the knowledge, skills and practices of professional attitudes and behaviour developed in their academic units. They develop communication, time management and customer service skills in business situations, experience and participate professionally in the corporate environment and obtain feedback from experienced supervisors on their performance.
FIT1049-IT professional practice:This unit examines the principles and applications of business modelling, how a business system is used as a key component of the broad decision support system or DSS. At the completion of the subject the student should understand some of the most commonly used computer modelling techniques used in business and industry and be familiar with the applications of these techniques to the solution of business related problems. Topics will include the fundamental breakeven analysis, various types of linear programming, network models, various aspects of decision making, waiting lines systems, Monte Carlo simulation and forecasting techniques.
FIT1050-Web fundamentals:The emphasis in this unit is on the application of fundamental programming concepts using an object-oriented programming language. It also introduces more advanced object-oriented programming topics such as inheritance and polymorphism. It gives students a deeper understanding of programming and gives more practical skills in designing, building and testing larger computer programs, including ones having graphical user interfaces, and utilising file I/O.
FIT1051-Programming fundamentals in java:This unit provides a theoretical and practical overview of personal and professional communications, with particular emphasis on appropriate register. Topics include: the elements of communication, barriers, cultural differences; active listening and feedback cues; public speaking; technical and business text structures and language features; workplace communications; personal and professional ethics and codes of practice; negotiation skills and conflict resolution; cross-cultural sensitivity and communications in the global economy. This unit is a hurdle requirement for Industry-Based Learning (IBL) students before their professional placements.
FIT1052-Digital futures: IT shaping society:This unit covers problems with paper-based and on-line documentation; types of technical documentation used in software engineering; the role of various different forms of technical documentation in the software development process; document specifications; the context of technical writing; the writing process (analysis, planning, generation, testing, revision and maintenance of written texts); document publication techniques (such SGML, LaTeX, and/or XML); the role of hypertext, hypermedia and markup languages in technical documentation; small-volume and large-volume hypertext; collaborative hypertext; intelligent hypertext.
FIT1053-Algorithms and programming in python (advanced):This unit introduces students to a variety of topics outside the curriculum, and provides an opportunity to write programs (or, rarely, to build hardware) in an area of interest to the student and the Faculty. The unit operates in an informal manner, and the programming tasks are designed to be interesting and challenging to advanced students. Students will typically meet with their supervisor on a weekly basis and in addition to demonstrating the results of their project, they will also give an oral presentation.
FIT1054-Computer science (advanced):This unit examines the fundamental issues of games development. The history of games and the games industry is studied. A variety of games genre are explained and contrasted. Topics include the different contributions from members of the games development team, the types of hardware used across various platforms for game implementation, the role of games engines, the importance of physics in ensuring realism and the manner in which system analysis can be applied to games development.
FIT2001-Systems development:This unit will further develop object-oriented programming skills with the C++ language, and place them into the Games Programming context. Fundamental games programming design principles will be covered, including formal game structures and the game program loop. A number of specific games programming techniques with C++ will be also covered. These include the use of DirectX, games physics, and advanced 3D rendering, expressing these concepts through game creation using C++ and Microsoft Windows DirectX. This provides a strong grounding for further study in this area, especially related to games engine development and artificial intelligence.
FIT2002-IT project management:This unit will examine the process of information system development and the key tasks in systems analysis and design from a problem-solving perspective. It will identify the key overall features which are common to all system development approaches and analytical and design techniques as problem-solving activities. From this foundation, it will examine, compare and contrast specific development approaches and analysis and design methods/techniques in the context of these problem-solving requirements.
FIT2003-IT professional practice:This unit introduces students to the ways organisations and businesses use the Internet and related technologies to securely conduct business activities. Students will acquire an understanding of the way e-business is carried out across all kinds of organisations for transactions and other business purposes. Students will analyse and design an e-business solution as part of a preliminary business case in order to gain an understanding of how e-business concepts can be applied to specific organisational and business environments. Topics include: + The nature of e-business and its infrastructure components - for businesses, services sector, government, health, communities, not-for-profit etc + Using Internet concepts and technologies for developing Intranets and intra-organisational systems and integration + Web site development and implementation issues + Web interfaces and back office systems integration + E-business implementation, business process integration and change management + Inter-organisational systems (IOS) - including current developments in EDI, VANS and VPNs + Electronic Payment Systems + Demand chains, Customer Relationship Management (CRM) in electronic marketing + E-procurement and supply chain management + Mobile systems and e-business + The use of Web Services (.NET, XML etc), middleware and object-broking in e-business systems + Legal, Privacy and security issues in e-business + E-business models and cases + Trends for e-business
FIT2004-Algorithms and data structures:Web-based information systems require a development approach, development skills and a range of participants unlike those used for other forms of information system. This unit aims to provide students with a broad understanding of the nature of the web-based information systems development process, and how it is applied in different types of information systems. The unit will examine the following main areas: + the basic technologies associated with the internet and the world-wide web; + the influence of these technologies on the use and development of information systems on the web; + the development processes required to build systems which make use of web and internet technologies + analysis and design issues and techniques for web-based systems + issues in managing web development teams and web projects The emphasis throughout the unit will be on providing a broad overview of topics, rather than examining any one topic in great depth. There will be a strong emphasis on practical demonstration of the concepts being studied, and case studies will be used to highlight key aspects of theory.
FIT2005-Software analysis, design and architecture:This unit explores fundamental concepts of information management within organisations. The unit matches known information needs of the business organisation with IM services and solutions, and teaches students how to use IM tools developed to manage information within organisations.
FIT2006-Business process modelling and workflow:This unit covers principles and practice of the emergent field of web content management. It focuses on developing organisation systems for websites or intranets that are responsive to business imperatives and user needs, and that facilitate effective retrieval of information. Particular emphasis is given to developing practical skills in these areas and to applying a range of popular tools, techniques, software commonly used for web content management.
FIT2008-Networks and data communications:This unit provides students with an overview of Enterprise Systems and is designed to describe the role of enterprise systems as part of the larger IT infrastructure of large scale organisations. The emphasis is on re-engineering business processes in an organisation through the adoption of enterprise systems. SAP R/3 will be used to introduce students to the complexity of enterprise wide systems through tutorial workshops where appropriate. This will include the addition of process modelling software tasks in practical sessions using ARIS toolset (SAP R/3 reference model).
FIT2009-Data structures and algorithms:The main topics covered in this unit include computer systems, operating systems, process management and coordination, memory management including modern implementations of virtual memory, file systems, operating system security, shell variant scripting, regular expressions, Unix utilities, Unix file system, Unix system administration and installation, Unix programming, research and development.
FIT2010-Database:This unit provides an introduction to the principles and practice of programming for business applications. This includes an overview of spreadsheet modelling and a detailed introduction to programming with Excel including general programming concepts, the syntax and semantics of a current business programming language, design and development of graphical user interfaces.
FIT2011-Decision support systems fundamentals:This unit covers the internal mechanism of computers and how they are organised and programmed. Topics include combinatorial and sequential logic, Boolean Algebra, Karnaugh maps, counters, ripple adders, tree adders, memory/addressing, busses, speed, DMA, data representation, machine arithmetic, microprogramming, caches and cache architectures, virtual memory and translation look-aside buffers, vectored interrupts, polled interrupts, pipelined architecture, superscalar architecture, data dependency, hazards, CISC, RISC, VLIW machine architectures.
FIT2012-Flash animation and applications:This unit covers software organisation of multi-user and multi-tasking computers. The principles of operating systems are covered with reference to the underlying hardware requirements and are illustrated by case studies. Topics include operating system structure and services, multi-programming processes, CPU scheduling, memory management, device management, synchronisation, deadlocks, virtual memory and file systems.
FIT2013-e-Business software technologies:Following on from FIT1040, this unit introduces the C++ language to students. The unit provides a foundational understanding of the C++ language, regarding syntax and applied practice, with a focus on object-oriented design principles. Fundamental programming control structures in the C++ context will be presented, as will object oriented design as a process for program design and problem solving. More advanced object-oriented programming topics such as inheritance and polymorphism will also be covered. Other C++ fundamentals such as pointers and the STL will be presented, as will implementations of the main algorithms and data structures used in problem solving.
FIT2014-Theory of computation:This unit examines the diversity of theoretical and conceptual frameworks which influence current research and production of educational multimedia applications. Topics will include: educational theory and practice, cognition and cognitive development, the differentiation between child and adult learners, catering to differences in the capacity to learn, for example, gifted and disabled learners, creating immersive and interactive learning environments, current debates surrounding e-Learning, and enabling equitable access to learning technologies. Students will be given an overview of issues and techniques for applying information technology to support instruction in educational and training contexts and gain practical experiences in managing a design process involving competing aspects of learning theories, content characteristics, audience needs and software development practices.
FIT2015-Foundations of 3D:This unit provides a foundation in the theoretical and practical principles of game design and game narrative structures in the games development process. Utilising the principles taught in this unit, students will be given the opportunity to design innovative game applications and implement the consequences of their decisions as working game prototypes. The combination of theory and practice in this unit is geared to equip students with the skills to not only design innovative games, but also to critique existing games and importantly new game ideas. The studio environment will facilitate considerable peer interaction, in particular in the design, communication, and critique of new game ideas. The unit provides knowledge and skills, which students can apply within their game development projects in the third year studio project/s (FIT3039/3040) and across all subsequent units.
FIT2016-Human computer interaction for multimedia:This unit examines the way in which information technology influences the structures and operations of organisations and organisational approaches to the management and use of information. The capabilities and limitations of technologies and the way they have been commoditised and standardised in the marketplace are fundamental determinants of what IT-based applications are capable of achieving. As technologies have evolved and been commoditised, they have shaped and in turn been shaped by what individuals and organisations want and expect from them. This unit applies this perspective as a basis for analysing the main technologies employed by organisations for the use and management of information.
FIT2017-Computer models for business decision making:This unit provides students with an introduction to the key concepts and principles involved in the management of information assets as a key organisational resource. Information assets and the information systems which create and use them are of critical importance to the operations of most modern organisations. The unit examines two main themes: the development and implementation of organisational approaches to the management of its information assets, and organisational approaches to the acquisition and development of information systems. As well as addressing the separate sets of issues specific to each of these themes, it will focus on the interactions between them and their implications for development of an integrated approach to organisational information management.
FIT2018-Network and systems administration:This unit provides students with the knowledge, understanding and skills required to develop an application system which uses a web interface to a back-end database. The unit assumes a sound basic knowledge of programming and database concepts and skills as developed in the introductory units in these areas. The emphasis in the unit is on mastery of the key concepts and the basic knowledge and skills required to build this kind of application. The unit will provide students with an awareness of the wide range of technologies which are used to support this kind of application, but will examine only a limited number of these technologies to demonstrate the key concepts and their application. The unit will take a strongly practical focus in examining the technology issues involved, and highlight the key issues which a developer needs to address in developing applications of this kind for real-world systems.
FIT2019-Network standards and specifications:This unit extends the study from FIT1004 Data management. FIT2077 will introduce more advanced concepts in the areas of database design, SQL, query optimisation and the handling of unstructured data (XML) both externally and within a database. The issue of "Big Data" and the role played by BI technologies and data warehouses will be explored.
FIT2020-Network architecture:This unit will provide students with a knowledge of information systems security issues, and their relevance to the management of information systems in contemporary organisations. The students will gain knowledge of the nature of information threats, risks and vulnerabilities and of the control technologies and techniques which can be applied to reduce risk. Students will be expected to demonstrate ethically sound viewpoints with respect to the protection of information resources while maintaining a secure IS framework related to a defence in depth strategy. Further students will have an understanding of the ethical, legal and criminal issues relating to the security of information systems. Additionally students will be required to analyse and assess recent developments and future trends in IS security technologies.
FIT2022-Computer systems 2:Data visualisation is a powerful technique that allows us to use our visual system to understand data. Interactive data visualisation is now common in business, engineering and design and the social and physical sciences. This unit introduces the main kinds of information graphics and interactive visualisation systems and their areas of application. It investigates the reasons why visualisation can be effective and based on this students will gain experience in critically assessing data visualisations and in designing their own visualisations. Students will learn how to create visualisations with representative computer tools and gain experience in creating a data visualisation for an application domain of their choice.
FIT2024-Software engineering practice:This unit provides a broad introduction to the rapidly-expanding field of information architecture (IA). IA is a major area of concern for any organisation which has a business need to store and manage large and varied collections of data. The unit explains the nature and purpose of IA as a field of study and examines typical IA needs of large organisations. It examines a variety of approaches to the task of IA development and the techniques commonly associated with them. Particular emphasis is given to developing practical skills in techniques for developing architectures and to applying a range of popular IA tools and techniques commonly used in IA projects.
FIT2026-Sound and video studio:This unit introduces an industrial strength programming language (with supporting software technologies and standards) and object-oriented application development in the context of mobile application development for smartphones and tablets. The approach is strictly application driven. Students will learn the syntax and semantics of the chosen language and its supporting technologies and standards and object oriented design and coding techniques by analysing a sequence of carefully graded, finished applications. Students will also design and build their own applications.
FIT2027-Systems design and implementation:This unit builds upon FIT1041 and FIT2083 or FIT2084 and allows students to conduct an independent research project. Students will be assigned to one of the Faculty of Information Technology's research groups, an academic supervisor and a research topic. Students may work on their project individually or in groups, as determined by their supervisor. During the semester, the student will be required to participate in research group events including seminars and presentations.
FIT2028-Web systems 2:This unit prepares students to conduct research in Computer Science. It introduces students to the issues, concepts, methods and techniques associated with IT research in general, but focuses on those most commonly used for research in Computer Science. It introduces students to professional practice and research ethics, the principles of research design, research methods and techniques of data collection and analysis appropriate to Computer Science. It covers oral and written communication skills. Skills developed and knowledge acquired from this unit will prepare students to conduct and to communicate their own research, as well as to be knowledgeable consumers of others' research.
FIT2029-Web programming:This unit introduces students to the issues, concepts, methods and techniques associated with information technology research in general and those most commonly used for research in information systems and information management. It covers research methodologies, data collection and analysis, ethical and professional issues and oral and written communication skills. Skills developed and knowledge acquired from this unit will prepare students to conduct and to communicate their own research, as well as to be knowledgeable consumers of others research.
FIT2032-Industry-based learning:This unit introduces students to core problem-solving, analytical skills, and methodologies useful for developing flexible, robust, and maintainable software. In doing this it covers a range of conceptual levels, from high level algorithms and data-structures, down to the machine models and simple assembly language programming. Topics include data types; data structures; algorithms; algorithmic complexity; recursion; and translation to assembly language.
FIT2033-Computer models for business decisions:This unit explores the statistical modelling foundations that underlie the analytic aspects of Data Science. It covers: + Data: collection and sampling, data quality. + Analytic tasks: statistical hypothesis testing, exploratory and confirmatory analysis. + Probability distributions: dependence and independence, multivariate Gaussian, Poisson, Dirichlet, random number generation and simulation of distributions, simulation of samples (bootstrap). + Predictive models: linear and logistic regression, and Bayesian classification. + Estimation: parameter and function estimation, maximum likelihood and minimum cost estimators, Monte Carlo estimators, inverse probabilities and Bayes theorem, bias versus variance and sample size effects, cross validation, estimation of model performance.
FIT2034-Computer programming 2:This unit builds upon the skills, techniques and theory introduced in FIT1033 Foundations of 3D and extends their research and skills in 3D character design and motion capture technologies for games and 3D animation. Students will be introduced to advanced techniques for character detailing (modelling and texturing) character animation (motion capture systems) and 3D environmental design. The theoretical and practical considerations contributing to the conceptualisation and preparation of 3D characters for animation sequences will constitute a key focus of this unit.
FIT2035-Communications for IT professionals:This unit will cover wireless network standards relevant for mobile devices, as well as the ubiquitous integration between different network types. This includes network architectures, operational techniques and functions of the infrastructural components used in these networks. Attention will be given to the Internet of Things, with specific reference to implementations in different kinds of organisations.
FIT2043-Technical documentation for software engineers:Globalisation and increasing customer demands are challenges facing companies today. To remain competitive and effective in their offerings, companies cannot afford to harbour inefficiencies in their operations. A business process oriented approach is key to the success of modern organisations. A well-designed process will improve efficiency and deliver greater productivity. At the same time, business processes must be designed to ensure that they are effective and meet customer requirements. The internal processes of a business organisation are described with an emphasis on how they work together to achieve the goals of the organisation. A range of process modelling tools is presented in the unit. Upon completion of this unit students should be able to: describe business processes in organisations, their structure and they fit into the overall organisation objectives; recommend a process modelling tool for modelling and analysing business processes with the aim of increasing efficiencies and effectiveness for businesses; analyse factors for managing in-house development or software outsourcing; discuss ethical issues related to the management and use of business information systems.
FIT2044-Advanced project level 2:Creative computing studio 1 builds upon the skills learnt in Creative computing foundations and introduces students to digital graphic and video technologies for the web. The basics of web design and production introduced in Creative computing foundations are extended in this unit. Students will undertake projects that integrate a range of multimedia resources to design and develop original digital images, motion graphic sequences and interactive webpages. In their final assignment, students will collaborate in groups of two or three to realise their multimedia creation.
FIT2048-Game implementation and techniques:Creative computing studio 2 consolidates the digital media skills introduced in Creative computing foundations and extended in Creative computing studio 1. The focus on the development of high level digital media skills in vector graphic editing, digital image manipulation and JavaScript equips students undertaking this unit to enter higher-level units in the Multimedia Development major, minor and extended major.
FIT2049-Games programming with C++:This unit will provide students with knowledge of cyber security issues, and their relevance to the management of information systems in contemporary organisations. Students will learn about common cyber attacks and the techniques for identifying, detecting, and defending against cyber-security threats. Further students will have an understanding of the ethical and privacy issues relating to the security of information systems. Additionally students will be required to analyse and assess recent developments and future trends in cyber security technologies.
FIT2051-Analysis and design methods:This unit will provide an introduction to the concepts of database design and usage and the related issues of data management. Students will develop skills in planning, designing, and implementing a data model using an enterprise-scale relational database system (Oracle). Methods and techniques will also be presented to populate, retrieve, update and implement integrity features on data in the implemented database system.
FIT2052-Electronic business:Non-B2B e-Business applications are now mostly developed for Web and mobile platforms. With the advent of mobile Web apps a set of technologies and techniques has emerged that are shared by both Web and mobile application development. This unit introduces, explains and uses these technologies and techniques to build basic but industrial strength e-Business applications. The topics covered will be selected from the following: an overview of the current state-of-play in e-Business application development, HTML5 (the living standard), CSS3, object oriented JavaScript for large developments, JavaScript APIs, Ajax, JSON, XML and related W3C technologies, jQuery, jQuery Mobile, MVC, ASP.NET MVC, ECMAScript 2015 and beyond, Angular, TypeScript, React. The appropriateness of the selected technologies in different contexts, together with relevant best practice techniques for their use and integration will also be covered.
FIT2053-Web-based information systems:This unit will further develop object-oriented programming skills with the C++ language, and place them into the Games Programming context. Fundamental games programming design principles will be covered, including formal game structures and the game program loop. A number of specific games programming techniques with C++ will be also covered. These include the use of DirectX, games physics, and advanced 3D rendering, expressing these concepts through game creation using C++ and Microsoft Windows DirectX. Underpinning this will be use of fundamental mathematical principles for working with computer graphics and game interactions. This provides a strong grounding for further study in this area, especially related to games engine development and artificial intelligence.
FIT2054-Information management in organisations:This unit will further develop games development programming skills with the C++ language, and explore them further in the Games Programming context. Focus will be on advanced games programming techniques, including a focus on the content pipeline, advanced rendering and visual game effects. Principles will also be placed into the context of different libraries, such as OpenGL, and other platforms, such as mobile. This provides a strong grounding for further study in this area, especially related to games engine development and artificial intelligence.
FIT2055-Web content management:This unit provides a focus on specialist tools and techniques used for developing content-rich interactive multimedia systems. This unit covers fundamental multimedia principles and best practice theory, the application of practical development processes, the integration of mixed-media assets, interactive design, animation and basic programming for digital media and different technologies for product deployment. Students create content-rich interactive application or Web-based products using industry standard authoring tools to gain an understanding of the role of digital media within the broader technology
FIT2057-Integrated business systems - SAP R/3:This unit introduces students to object-oriented design principles and their application to the construction of quality software. Students will learn the fundamental concepts that underlie modern object-oriented languages, and will learn how to implement their designs using at least one. Students will also learn how to use standard notation to illustrate their designs.
FIT2065-Operating systems and the Unix environment:This unit will provide students with the knowledge of how a multi-programming, multi-user operating systems operates and it manages and allocate resources to different applications. Students will be able to compare and contrast various resource management allocation strategies. Students will develop and implement new resource management strategy and study its properties. The topics covered will include an introduction to C Programming which is heavily used in development of operating systems, operating system structure and services, multi-programming processes, CPU scheduling, memory management, device management, synchronisation, deadlocks, virtual memory and file systems.
FIT2066-Computer programming for business:A disciplined process is vital to the success of any major software development project. In this unit, students learn essential skills for managing software development efforts and for working within coordinated teams. Students will learn how to decide upon and document their team's structure and their process model. They will be expected to follow the process model they have documented, and to evaluate its effectiveness. There are many factors that can potentially cause a software project to fail. This unit will equip students with techniques to identify and manage these risks, and will take a risk-focused approach to project organisation.
FIT2069-Computer architecture:Ability to code in differently constructed programming languages is analogous to speaking in different natural languages with varying grammars. Similar to natural languages, programming languages from different paradigms (styles) vary in their expressiveness and efficiency. One programming language may require many screens-full of complex code to accomplish a task for which another requires but a few expressive lines of code. Therefore, understanding the design principles of programming languages enables computational problems to be implemented in drastically different and powerful ways; leading, in some cases, to solutions that are more elegant, correct, maintainable, efficient and/or extensible. This unit examines a selection of programming languages and paradigms and explores the evolution of language design from low-level paradigms that are closer to the execution model of the machine, to more high-level declarative paradigms that allow programmers to model a problem precisely rather than specify its solution. The unit covers paradigms such as functional and logic programming, comparing and contrasting them to programming styles that students are already familiar with, including object-oriented, imperative and procedural programming paradigms. Topics include specification and data-modeling techniques (covering types and polymorphism, mutability-versus-purity, state management, and side-effects) and different models of execution such as strict-versus-lazy evaluation. The unit provides practical experience with a variety of non-procedural, non-object-oriented programming languages and discusses the influence of programming language theory on the design of current main-stream computer languages, and how the theory translates to practice.
FIT2070-Operating systems:This unit provides students with the knowledge, understanding and skills required to analyse a business problems and develop a solution that uses a web interface to a back-end database. The unit assumes a sound basic knowledge of programming and database concepts and skills as developed in the introductory units in these areas. The emphasis in the unit is on mastery of the key concepts and the basic knowledge and skills required to build this kind of application. The unit will provide students with an awareness of the wide range of technologies that are used to support this kind of application, but will examine only a limited number of these technologies to demonstrate the key concepts and their application. The unit will take a strongly practical focus in examining the technology issues involved, and highlight the key issues which a developer needs to address in developing applications of this kind for real-world systems.
FIT2071-Foundations of C++:This unit explores developments in art, science and technology, drawing on important periods in Italian history and culture as a background for understanding contemporary interdisciplinary practice. It will examine the nature and development of technology in science, engineering, the arts and architecture. Using the city of Prato and the museums, galleries, rural landscapes and built environments in the surrounding region, students will develop a team-based interdisciplinary project that draws on this rich historical, cultural and technological landscape.
FIT2072-Educational multimedia:This unit focuses on quality assurance issues and techniques in software development projects. It defines software quality and introduces a number of quality assurance measures, including human review and inspection of code and non-code artifacts, as well as execution-based testing. Students will apply systematic testing techniques in the context of individual modules and entire systems, using appropriate tools to automate the testing process where possible. Students will systematically document their testing plans and outcomes.
FIT2073-Game design studio 1:This undergraduate seminar unit is compulsory for undergraduate students who have been selected for the Industry Based Learning Program in the Faculty of Information Technology. It is a non-weighted unit and is taken in addition to any prescribed coursework. The seminars are presented by the industry partners of the IBL program and are intended to provide the students with useful knowledge of current industry practise in IT. This seminar series should be attended prior to the commencement of an IBL placement.
FIT2074-Technology, information and organisations:This unit builds upon the skills, techniques and theory introduced in FIT1033 Foundations of 3D towards an emphasis on 3D character design and modelling for animation. Students will be introduced to advanced techniques for character detailing (modelling and texturing) and character animation (rigging, binding and animation). The theoretical and practical considerations contributing to the conceptualisation, creation and preparation of 3D characters for animation sequences will constitute a key focus of this unit.
FIT2075-Information strategies and systems development:In the modern corporate world, data is viewed not only as a necessity for day-to-day operation, it is seen as a critical asset for decision making. However, raw data is of low value. Succinct generalisations are required before data gains high value. Data mining produces knowledge from data, making feasible sophisticated data-driven decision making. This unit will provide students with an understanding of the major components of the data mining process, the various methods and operations for data mining, knowledge of the applications and technical aspects of data mining, and an understanding of the major research issues in this area.
FIT2076-Web-database interface:Automation and the use of technological tools have resulted in the accumulation of vast volumes of data by modern business organisations. Data warehouses have been set up as repositories to store this data and improved techniques now result in the speedy collection and integration of such data. OLAP technology has resulted in the faster generation of reports and more flexible analysis based on the data repositories. This unit will explore the concepts of data warehousing and OLAP, covering the data processing technological requirements for data warehousing and OLAP and will provide hands on experience on designing data warehousing and OLAP systems.
FIT2077-Advanced data management:The unit builds on the knowledge of basic concepts from FIT2026 Sound and video studio by further developing an understanding of the multimedia development process, tools and techniques as applied to advanced time based media manipulation in multimedia content production. It introduces students to a range of techniques by which video can be manipulated and enhanced after the original material has been recorded.
FIT2078-Introduction to security:This unit incorporates organisational, inter-organisational and foundational technological issues in e-Business systems. Students are introduced to the fundamentals of trading systems so they can be better placed within an e-Business context. Various types of e-business models are discussed. Contents and processes involved in e-business planning and strategy development are reviewed. Ways to manage changes caused by e-business initiatives are discussed. Electronic auctions and their relationships with business procurement processes are discussed. Security mechanisms safeguarding e-business transactions are reviewed.
FIT2079-Data visualisation:Contemporary computers grids provide means to implement on-demand computing. These grids can also provide a seamless (web-like) access to a variety of networked resources, e.g. large data stores and information repositories, expensive instruments, high-speed links, sensors networks, and multimedia services for a wide range of applications. Topics covered include: Computational and service-oriented grids. LVS and Beowulf Clusters. Gridservices, Webservices, WSDL, HPC Portals, Home Grids, and Peer-to-Peer (P2P) networks. Grid applications, and performance in relation to processor and network performance constraints.
FIT2080-Web systems content management:This unit covers: Distributed database systems: clients, servers, application servers; Database servers, clusters of servers; Distributed database architectures: single-tier, two-tier, multi-tier; Implementation issues: performance, security, transactions; Enterprise application server capabilities: hot deployment, clean shutdown, clustering, farming, load balancing, automatic fail-over; Enterprise application coding: DBMS access, distributed components, messaging services, authentication, authorisation, encryption, transactions; and Enterprise application software development tools.
FIT2081-Mobile application development:This unit provides both a theoretical and practical overview of Enterprise Systems. Enterprise Systems are configurable information systems packages that integrate information and information-based processes within and across functional areas in an organisation. Topics include systems and technology background, ES evolution, ES lifecycle, implementation and configuration, ES and electronic commerce and ES success and failure factors. The theoretical component will be augmented by detailed case studies which focus on problems faced by real-life companies. For the practical component, laboratory exercises using a well-known Enterprise System will be used to deepen student understanding.
FIT2082-Research project 2:Review of set theory, the predicate calculus, relations, relational algebra and formal specification concepts; algebraic and model based specifications; the role of formal specifications in software engineering. The Event-B notation, the role of proof obligations and refinement, the LTL and CTL temporal logics, the model checking approach and techniques.
FIT2083-Research methods in computer science:This unit provides students with advanced techniques for designing and analysing complex algorithms. In particular, it teaches advanced search strategies, how to select an appropriate search strategy for a given problem, advanced techniques for analysis of algorithmic complexity, dynamic programming, basic statistics to estimate program behaviour, Monte Carlo simulation techniques, and basic notions in computability such as NP completeness.
FIT2084-Research methods in information systems and information management:In their final year of study, students are given the opportunity to develop new skills and apply the knowledge and skills they have gained, in the development of an IT application for a real world client. In teams, students design, develop and deliver an IT applications for a client, manage the project through all its development stages, communicate effectively with all project stakeholders and develop project documentation to a professional standard. Students also present their project work to academics and other groups, attend unit seminars, and contribute in a professional and committed manner to the work of their team.
FIT2085-Introduction to computer science for engineers:This unit provides students with an understanding of the management issues surrounding Information Technology (IT), the knowledge of management functions and responsibilities necessary for IT managers, and the knowledge to apply IT management principles in an organisational environment. Main topics include: Information Systems, Management, Managing Essential Technologies, Managing Systems Development, Managing New Technologies, Acquisition of Hardware, Software, Networks, and Services People and Technology.
FIT2086-Modelling for data analysis:With the increasing amount of data available, it is important to be able to represent large collections from a wide range of domains in forms that more readily convey embedded information. The human sense of vision is a powerful tool for pattern recognition - this sense can be harnessed via multimedia interactive presentations. This unit will examine the fundamental principles of information visualisation and the range of tools and methods which are available to represent large data sets. These techniques can be applied across a wide range of fields including geographical, medical, statistical and scientific visualisation. The unit will examine in detail the visualisation of geospatial data in GIS (Geographic Information Systems).
FIT2087-Advanced 3D:This unit aims to develop and extend students understanding and knowledge about the information technology infrastructure that supports and enables modern electronic commerce systems. This infrastructure includes communication networks (wireline and wireless), the Internet, payment mechanisms, and a range of enabling technologies, such as XML, server technologies, software agents, various emerging protocols and standards. Applications and recent developments in such enabling technologies including mobile commerce are explored. The unit approaches some infrastructure issues from the perspective of security in electronic commerce, focussing on real and potential security problems and the techniques for addressing them. Privacy and legal issues concerning electronic commerce are discussed.
FIT2089-Mobile networks:In this unit students will study the various types of interaction, simulation and visualisation related to creating interactive games based content, covering topics such as genres of immersive interactive environments as well as the principles and techniques of game design and game play. In addition, students will learn how to design and develop their own immersive and interactive environments following industry development methods.
FIT2090-Business information systems and processes:This unit focuses on the design, construction and deployment of mobile applications, with particular focus on Android and iOS platforms. Areas such as mobile data management and networking, MVC design patterns, and mobile GUI design considerations will be explored. The unit will emphasise hands-on, practical experience with actual devices and emulators.
FIT2091-Creative computing studio 1:The unit provides the basic concepts of multimedia, multimedia elements and security and privacy issues required for multimedia applications. This unit also introduces the basic processes of analysis and design for developing a complete functional specification for a multimedia/web-based application. In addition to this, it also provides an overview of the application of programming languages and detailed knowledge of multimedia authoring tools required for implementing a multimedia/web-base application. Students will have hands-on experience on analysis, design and implementation of a multimedia/web-base application.
FIT2092-Creative computing studio 2:This unit will provide students with an understanding of: OSI security architecture; common information risks and requirements; operation of encryption techniques; digital signatures; public key infrastructure; authentication and non-repudiation; intrusion detection and response; firewall defence; privacy and ethics issues; security configurations to PC-based applications; and design of information systems with security compliance and security standards and protocols.
FIT2093-Introduction to cyber security:This unit examines the diversity of theoretical and conceptual frameworks which influence current research and production of educational multimedia applications. Topics will include: educational theory and practice, cognition and cognitive development, the differentiation between child and adult learners, catering to differences in the capacity to learn, for example, gifted and disabled learners, creating immersive and interactive learning environments, current debates surrounding e-Learning, and enabling equitable access to learning technologies. Students will be given an overview of issues and techniques for applying information technology to support instruction in educational and training contexts and gain practical experiences in managing a design process involving competing aspects of learning theories, content characteristics, audience needs and software development practices.
FIT2094-Databases:This unit is intended to provide practical experience in designing, developing and testing a non-trivial computer science project. Projects are generally software-based, although sometimes they may involve hardware development or investigation of theory. Projects cover the whole process of software (or hardware) development, from analysis through design to implementation and testing. Comprehensive written documentation on the project is required. Students are assigned in groups to a project supervisor. There are no lectures in this unit, although students will be expected to attend regular meetings with their project supervisor.
FIT2095-e-Business software technologies:In this unit students will learn about many aspects of working with a large team on large projects to produce quality software products on time and within budget. The student will gain an appreciation of the tools and techniques used to develop software systems within a group context. Topics to be studied include: software development lifecycle models; sizing, estimation, planning and control of projects; functional specification and design of real-time systems; formal specification and design using Z; integration and testing strategies, configuration management; reuse and re-engineering.
FIT2096-Games programming 1:This unit is intended to provide students with practical experience relating to the construction of software according to software engineering principles. Students are expected to undertake the design and implementation of a program. All aspects of the software engineering process will be covered including requirements analysis, specification, design, coding, testing and maintenance. Students will generally work in a group, and interaction with that group will be an integral part of the project. As a rough guide, this subject should require about one hundred and fifty hours of effort from the student during the semester.
FIT2097-Games programming 2:The principal development process focus of the unit will be on the social, legal and business context in which multimedia and games development companies must operate. Students will work actively in teams on the development of a multimedia or games application or exhibit. Project teams will use project planning/management skills, and design and build a prototype of the project using appropriate software processes and methodologies. Students will integrate multimedia, programming and technical knowledge in the development process. Requirements are fulfilled by the team producing an identified set of deliverables. The team must ensure that each deliverable is completed on schedule.
FIT2098-Interactive media:Students will work actively in teams on the development of a multimedia or games application or exhibit. Using project planning/management skills along with other development procedures, students must then deliver a functional multimedia system or game, along with all requisite documentation, which integrates multimedia, programming, and technical knowledge in the development process. Requirements are fulfilled by the team producing an identified set of deliverables, usually a progress report, full system documentation, and functional project. The team must ensure that each deliverable is completed on schedule, with each member of the team demonstrating a significant contribution to the overall effort.
FIT2099-Object oriented design and implementation:UNIX and Operating Systems, UNIX shells and Bourne Shell in particular, Useful Utilities, Perl Scripting, TCL Scripting, C Programming in General, Systems Programming Using C and UNIX, Process Management, Interprocess Communication in C, UNIX Directories and Devices, Make Utility, Java Native Interface
FIT2100-Operating systems:This unit provides students with an introduction to UNIX tools for managing processes; searching, editing and modifying files and data streams; and command interpreters and shell scripts. In addition, students will learn about a typical system call interface and its use for systems programming in a language like C.
FIT2101-Software engineering process and management:Content covered in this unit, includes: Static and dynamic web pages; ASP.Net environment; HTML forms reviewed; Standard server controls; C# language; Page life cycles; Event driven programming and postback; C# basics; Objects in C#; Namespaces and core objects; State handling; Objects and structured data; Validation controls; Master pages; Themes and skins; Navigation controls; Using data sources; Reading and updating data stores; XML files as data store; Using Grids; Data binding; Configuration and optimisation; Authentication; Email and accessing file systems; Components and user controls; Code behind; .NET Assemblies; Custom Server Controls; Using Ajax.
FIT2102-Programming paradigms:This unit extends the website authoring concepts taught in FIT1012 by looking at more advanced techniques which are available to web site developers in publishing rich media/multimedia content. The structure of an XML document is investigated and the manner in which such a document can be converted to HTML or other formats. Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL), a form of XML, will be investigated as a technique for authoring interactive audio-visual presentations. In addition the unit introduces Macromedia Flash remoting as a client for web services, phps multimedia capabilities and the requirements/standards for web audio/video streaming.
FIT2104-Web database interface:Students on placement participate full time in a defined, graduate level role during a 22-week placement period at established partners of the Faculty of IT industry based learning program including major global companies, leading Australian companies and worldwide consultancies. The students on placement apply the knowledge, skills and practices of professional attitudes and behaviour developed in their academic units. They develop communication, time management, self-reflection and customer service skills in business situations, experience and participate professionally in the corporate environment and obtain feedback from experienced supervisors on their performance.
FIT2105-Creative computing: understanding art, science and technology:Processes and threads: interprocess communication, scheduling. Deadlock: detection, prevention, avoidance. Memory management: allocation, swapping, virtual memory. Input/output principles and examples: disks, graphical user interfaces, network terminals. File systems: files, directories, disk space management. Security: authentication, cryptography, common attacks, principles of secure system administration. Case studies: Characteristics of major PC operating systems such as Linux and Windows.
FIT2107-Software quality and testing:In their final year of study, students are given the opportunity to develop new skills and apply the knowledge and skills they have gained, in the development of an IT application for a real world client. In teams, students design, develop and deliver an IT applications for a client, manage the project through all its development stages, communicate effectively with all project stakeholders and develop project documentation to a professional standard. Students also present their project work to academics and other groups, attend unit seminars, and contribute in a professional and committed manner to the work of their team. FIT3047 is the first of two industry experience units for most majors in the Bachelor of Information Technology and Systems and Bachelor of Information Technology, and in the Bachelor of Computer and Information Sciences and Bachelor of Business Information Systems. After successful completion of this unit, students must enrol in and pass FIT3048 to complete their industry experience project requirements.
FIT2108-Industry based learning seminar:In their final year of study, students are given the opportunity to develop new skills and apply the knowledge and skills they have gained, in the development of an IT application for a real world client. In teams, students design, develop and deliver an IT applications for a client, manage the project through all its development stages, communicate effectively with all project stakeholders and develop project documentation to a professional standard. Students also present their project work to academics and other groups, attend unit seminars, and contribute in a professional and committed manner to the work of their team. FIT3048 is the second of two industry experience units for most majors in the Bachelor of Information Technology and Systems, Bachelor of Computer and Information Sciences, Bachelor of Business Information Systems and Bachelor of Information Technology. Students must enrol in and pass FIT3048 after successful completion of FIT3047 to complete their industry experience project requirements.
FIT3001-Advanced 3D:This unit is designed to introduce students to the practical application of decision support systems for finance using modern computer tools. It covers issues associated with the implementation, theory and risk of decision support systems for finance. The aims of this course are to provide a study of the concepts behind decision making; the tools and techniques to support various stages of the decision making process and to explore key factors of successful decision support systems for finance problems and their development methodology. On completion of the unit, students should be able to: (a) understand the needs of decision makers and apply techniques and tools to support various phases of the decision making process (b) formulate requirements for simulation and modelling and apply techniques of sensitivity analysis (c) analyse and design effective decision support systems for finance problems.
FIT3002-Applications of data mining:Students are introduced to some of the most common security issues involved in the development of software, including secure coding practices, secure database access, secure data communications, security of web applications, use of encryption techniques and security testing. Students are provided with a range of practical exercises to reinforce their skills, including authenticating and authorising users programmatically, user input validation, developing secure web, mobile/wireless and database applications, encrypting and hashing data programmatically, generating digital signatures programmatically, security testing, designing logging and auditing mechanisms.
FIT3003-Business intelligence and data warehousing:This unit focuses on the theory and application of object-oriented programming techniques as implemented in the Java programming language and its ability to build server-side and enterprise applications for the World Wide Web. It also looks at the Open Source technologies available for enterprise computing. Students gain practical experience with the issues and technologies related to the development of large scale enterprise systems including: Transactions and distributed transaction processing, interoperability and persistence, scalability and the choices facing enterprise system architects and developers.
FIT3008-Advanced digital video:This unit investigates some of the latest developments in the field of web applications. Known as Web Services, they make use of a number of standards to allow business to business (B2B) systems over the World Wide Web. Resolving these problems comes under the broad title of interoperability. A number of technologies and standards allow Web services to be employed. These include XML for description of Web services, SOAP as the protocol to send messages, WSDL to describe the operations offered by a Web Service, BPEL to co-ordinate a number of Web Services in complex synchronous and/or asynchronous interactions, and UDDI as registry to allow discovery and publication of Web Services.
FIT3009-e-Business systems:This unit provides a detailed understanding of the underpinning theories, principles and practices of interface design for computer-based systems. It examines issues in the design of system interfaces from a number of perspectives: user, programmer, designer. It explores the application of the relevant theories in practice. The unit will cover topics such as methods and tools for developing effective user interfaces, evaluation methods such as the conduct of usability and heuristic evaluations, design of appropriate interface elements including the design of menus and other interaction styles. The unit will also focus on designing for a diverse range of users and environments.
FIT3010-Grid computing:This unit provides students with a detailed understanding of key topics in information systems strategy and management, and with the skills and capacity to critically analyse IS management issues. Topics include management of IT directions including outsourcing, systems provisioning, etc.; management and planning of IT support for business strategies; IT strategic planning; and IT risk management and failures.
FIT3011-Enterprise programming:This unit provides an understanding of the portfolio of information systems needed to support a large organisation, based on ERP packages as the principal business information system in large organisations. It examines the forms and mechanisms of business process integration and data integration between the Enterprise System and other business information systems, including legacy systems and office systems. It introduces students to the concept of workflow and to selected software tools for process modelling and workflow design, and to the different types of integration software (middleware) and technologies that enable business process integration through workflow automation.
FIT3012-Enterprise systems:This unit relates to managing the creation, storage, recall and dissemination of business records within organisation-wide frameworks. Topics cover: socio-legal and business requirements for evidence; knowledge bases for representing functions and activities; managing access; designing and implementing recordkeeping policies, strategies and systems in accordance with industry and professional standards, including the International Standard for Records Management, and using recordkeeping business analysis tools (workflow, risk management, identification of vital records, functional analysis).
FIT3013-Formal specification for software engineering:This unit provides an overview of the techniques used to search for knowledge within a data set using both supervised and unsupervised learning. The techniques include Classification, Prediction, Clustering, Association discovery, Time sequence discovery, Sequential pattern discovery, Visualization, Statistical Methods, Decision Trees, Rule based methods, Neural networks, Machine learning, Genetic Algorithms and Fuzzy Systems. Students are able to choose an appropriate technique to suit a particular situation.
FIT3014-Analysis and design of algorithms:This unit builds on introductory units to analysis and design. It provides the professional software engineer with advanced knowledge and skills in high-level architectural design, its theoretical foundations, industrial best practice, and relevant application context. In the software life-cycle, software architecture sits between analysis/specification and design/implementation. The field of software architecture has come of age with a thriving research community and numerous high-level models, methods, tools and practices widely used in industry.
FIT3015-Industrial experience studio project:This unit includes history of artificial intelligence; intelligent agents; problem solving and search (problem representation, heuristic search, iterative improvement, game playing); knowledge representation and reasoning (extension of material on propositional and first-order logic for artificial intelligence applications, planning, frames and semantic networks); reasoning under uncertainty (belief networks); machine learning (decision trees, Naive Bayes, neural nets and genetic algorithms); language technology.
FIT3019-Information systems management:This unit introduces fundamental image processing techniques for the digital manipulation of 2D image data. Algorithms explored include those for edge detection, image enhancement, feature and shape extraction, segmentation and noise removal. The unit provides students an opportunity to develop theoretical understanding of these algorithms, and practical skills in implementing and applying them to real image data.
FIT3020-Information visualisation:This unit provides a thorough understanding of the four main programming language paradigms: imperative, functional, logic and object-oriented. In doing this, it reviews different example languages and the kinds of applications each language is intended for, focusing on how the choices made during the design of a language affect the resulting ease of programming. Particular emphasis will be made on functional and logic languages. Students will gain practical programming experience in languages that use these paradigms, such as SML and Prolog. Implications of language design on the implementation of programming languages will be highlighted.
FIT3021-Infrastructure for e-commerce:Non-B2B e-Business applications are now mostly developed for Web and mobile platforms. With the advent of mobile Web apps a set of technologies and techniques has emerged that are shared by both Web and mobile application development. This unit introduces, explains and uses these technologies and techniques to build basic but industrial strength e-Business applications. The topics covered will be selected from the following: an overview of the current state-of-play in e-Business application development, HTML5 (the living standard), CSS3, object oriented JavaScript for large developments, JavaScript APIs, Ajax, JSON, XML and related W3C technologies, jQuery, jQuery Mobile, MVC, ASP.NET MVC, ECMAScript 2015 and beyond, Angular, TypeScript, React. The appropriateness of the selected technologies in different contexts, together with relevant best practice techniques for their use and integration will also be covered.
FIT3023-Interactive environments:This unit introduces on-line systems and the Internet as a specific example of an on-line system. Students are exposed to the various multimedia services which are possible in this client/server paradigm. They get first-hand experience with the creation of WWW content, and the tools which are available to help in this endeavour. The unit covers graphical user interface concepts, Hypertext Markup Language (HTML), principles of good design, usability testing, Web programming in a language such as Javascript, Perl, and the future outlook for on-line services. They are also exposed to the interaction of HTML and on-line databases, and other forms of interactive multimedia interfaces.
FIT3027-Android and iOS development:This unit is intended to teach students about the design of numerical algorithms and the effect that computer arithmetic has on both the design of numerical algorithms and on numerical software. Students are introduced to main paradigms for creating numerical computing algorithms, namely the paradigm of local approximation and the paradigm of matrix transformations.
FIT3028-Multimedia concepts and application:The unit provides both a theoretical and practical overview of processes involved in managing large projects, with particular emphasis on projects common to the information technology industry. Topics include the project life cycle, problem definition, project evaluation, high and low level planning, team building and people management, monitoring and control, reporting and communication, termination and assessment.
FIT3031-Information and network security:Computer graphics is concerned with the creation of synthetic images and virtual worlds. This unit introduces the essential algorithms, theory and programming concepts necessary to generate interactive 2D and 3D graphics. Students will gain practical experience using the industry standard OpenGL API to develop their own interactive graphics applications. The topics covered form the basis of core knowledge necessary for developing applications in scientific visualisation, virtual reality, visual special effects and computer games.
FIT3033-Principles of educational multimedia:This unit introduces topics in Artificial Intelligence (AI) suited to real-time simulation and computer games development. Using a practice-based and programming-led approach, the unit explores a number of fundamental concepts, techniques and algorithms that can be used to build real-time, interactive games, virtual environments and simulations. Starting with basic concepts in 2D discrete simulation, the unit progresses to continuous, 3D models, agent simulation, bio-inspired intelligence models and search algorithms. Programs are developed using the Processing environment in Java or C++.
FIT3036-Computer science project:This unit aims to develop the students knowledge of the concept of narrative structure, and its importance in the development of their understanding of how to create, and implement contextually appropriate narrative forms for multimedia products and systems, with a special emphasis on the game environment. Topics will include: linear, visual and non-linear narrative, historical perspectives on the evolution of the narrative forms, and concepts such as representation, characterisation, point of view, genre, closure, the role of the user, interactivity, immersion and engagement.
FIT3037-Software engineering:This unit introduces students to a critical understanding of the impact of information and communications technology (ICT) within contemporary social relations. In particular, the unit explores the ways in which the diffusion of ICT has reshaped thinking and practice within the workplace, communities, and society more broadly. Particular emphasis is placed upon the relationship between human activity and technology, the various ways in which the latter might replace or augment the former, and the consequences that might follow from such changes.
FIT3038-Software engineering project:This unit aims to provide students with an understanding of a range of techniques for utilising personal and organisational knowledge to increase organisational efficiency. A broad range of topics will be covered relating to initiating and implementing knowledge management (KM) initiatives. The unit will focus on information systems development evolution to knowledge management. The topics to cover include KM implementation life cycle; KM systems analysis and design; Knowledge audit; Creating KM blueprint; KM development approaches; organisational and people issues in KM development, designing a KM team; KM deployment and evaluation. At the completion of this subject, students will know about the role of personal and organisational knowledge management in addressing organisational efficiency. They will have an understanding of the methods and approaches for implementing knowledge management in the organisation. They will have developed skills in evaluating the sources and potential value of knowledge within an organisation, and have developed attitudes, which will allow them to participate confidently as a team member in the analysis and design of a knowledge management system development project.
FIT3039-Studio project 1:This unit provides an introduction to the development of business systems for B2C internet commerce. A complete, non-trivial B2C application will be built, in phases, using specific, currently popular technologies. Through this development the student will acquire an appreciation of many of the hardware and software infrastructure and business issues involved. In addition specific, currently marketable, development skills will be learned. Reasons for retailers to go on-line will be discussed as well as the risks and threats involved. Peripheral, but important issues, such as Search Engine Optimisation (SEO) will also be discussed. Typical hardware and software options and requirements will be assessed. The B2C application to be built will involve product catalogs with search facilities, transaction processing using a third party (at various levels of dependency), shopping carts, product recommendations, customer accounts and application administration. Emphasis will be placed on building highly flexible, modular/component-based B2C systems using a 3-tier application architecture. Develops students understanding on the re-intermediation trend of portals, the implication of the push-pull model in the information portals, the use of search engine and the characteristics and properties of software agents in business applications.
FIT3040-Studio project 2:This unit presents operations management in manufacturing and service organisations. Topics include: Financial calculations, funds employed, product pricing, budgets, cash flow. Accounting terms, definitions. Contracts and contract law. An introduction to computer software systems in a management context. Production scheduling, planning and control. Students will prepare sales, purchasing and productions schedules. Materials requirements planning. History, methods, uses . Project management with cash flow, financial statements, quotations and costing. Students will learn how to plan and manage small to medium sized projects. Students will study project network calculations, critical path, floats, barcharts, scheduling. Just-in-time systems. The unit concentrates on the mechanics of material flow in Just-in-Time systems. Barcoding. EAN-13, Code 39, TUNs and Interleaved 2-of-5. Students will learn how to encode and decode the most common types of linear barcodes. Two dimensional barcodes will be described. The ISO9000 standards and quality standards. The unit will also explain different types of organisations and their business strategies.
FIT3041-Unix for networked systems and devices:This unit focuses on the broader aspects of business improvement as a whole including the analysis and modelling of the current system, benchmarking to identify improved processes and industry best practice, developing improved processes, and then presenting a business case including change management, orally and in writing, to obtain approval to change the business processes. The unit provides students with the fundamentals of business improvements that will enable them to investigate, develop and present business cases. It involves learning and applying business process analysis, business modelling, business re-engineering and benchmarking concepts. Practical group projects also involve problem solving techniques, team working and the presentation of business cases towards the end of the subject. These practical cases contribute partly to the final assessment of this subject.
FIT3042-System tools and programming languages:Introduces students to current theory and practice of authentication and identity management. This includes authentication and identity management of system components (software, hardware, data and users); Biometric based Identification systems; Smart card based Identification systems; Crypto-based Identification systems; Kerberos authentication systems; Large population ID management and security; Privacy, security, and efficiency of identification systems.
FIT3043-Web systems 3:This unit is designed for students who wish to extend their programming abilities in developing relatively large database applications. An integrated system of significant size will be developed using the current industry standard software. Topics covered include the principal aspects of database development and applications, advanced queries, customising forms and professional reporting, business graphics, importing and exporting data, internet applications, debugging and error-handling security and system documentation.
FIT3044-Advanced website authoring:This unit looks at the design and implementation issues of database management systems. Advanced database design using the object-relational approach and multi-dimensional database design are explored. Record, file and index structures are dealt with at the basic level. Higher level details of consistency, atomicity and durability are introduced along with modern trends in databases.
FIT3045-Industry-based learning:This unit relates to the fundamental role of recordkeeping professionals in society to provide access to recorded information in the form of essential evidence of social and organisational activity for business, commercial, governmental, social, and cultural purposes. It covers the role of recordkeeping in society and organisations, functional requirements for evidence, the formulation of recordkeeping policy, strategies and tactics, the establishment of recordkeeping regimes, business functional analysis, appraisal and disposal, the development of metadata schemas and their implementation in recordkeeping systems.
FIT3046-Operating environments:This unit provides students with skills and knowledge relating to the use of latest technologies for managing knowledge, electronic documents and records to meet the needs of individuals, work groups and organisations. The unit aims to build a general understanding of technologies for managing personal and organisational structured and unstructured information and knowledge and the methods of developing systems to handle it. Students study the business context, requirements analysis techniques and implementation issues for electronic document management, recordkeeping, content and other information and knowledge management systems.
FIT3047-Industry experience studio project 1:This unit introduces students to the major categories of information resources in all media and how they are accessed through a variety of common user interfaces from anywhere in the world. The process of satisfying these needs through the reference interview and the application of skilled search strategies is explored. The ways that information resources are procured by libraries and e-repositories through purchase or licensing, and supplied to users on a cost-effective, efficient basis are examined. Access and authentication, intellectual property law and professional duty of care are described.
FIT3048-Industry experience studio project 2:This unit prepares students for the professional workplace, through a professional placement in a library, archives, registry or other information agency; and a lecture/seminar series on professional issues within the information industry. The placement enables students to link theory with professional practice, and develops understanding of the role of information agencies within their environment. Lectures/seminars draw on current professional literature and key players in the field to explore a range of topical issues within the profession, the role of professional ethics and professional associations, and career opportunities within the industry.
FIT3051-Decision support systems for finance:This unit develops understanding of the fundamental principles, concepts and standards that guide the development of information organisation and retrieval systems and web-based information architectures. It deals with standards governing description, distribution and access to information locally and globally cataloguing, indexing, thesaurus construction, classification and metadata for knowledge discovery. It examines the effects of economic, social and technological factors on the development of bibliographic networks and cataloguing operations. Practical sessions deal with the use of major bibliographic tools, schemes and systems for information organisation.
FIT3056-Secure and trusted software systems:The main topics covered in this unit are: Object-oriented design and programming in C++ which include object identification, data encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism; concurrent programming techniques which include principles of concurrency, safety and liveness design, multithreaded programming in C++; network and distributed software construction principles and techniques which include network software performance, client-server software construction, socket and RPC programming in C++; and study and compare C++ with Java and Ada in terms of large software constructions.
FIT3057-Enterprise programming:Students on placement work full time in a defined, graduate level role during a 22 week placement period at industry partners of the Bachelor of Computer Science and Bachelor of Software Engineering industry-based learning program. The students on placement are able to apply the knowledge and skills developed in their academic units, improve their communication, time management and customer service skills in an industry environment, experience an IT development environment and obtain feedback from experienced supervisors on their performance.
FIT3060-Service oriented computing:This unit is designed to introduce students to the fundamental concepts necessary for the analysis, design, use and implementation of business information systems using relational database management systems. The main topics covered include requirements elicitation, systems analysis and design informed by a lifecycle based methodology, motivation for the database approach to managing information, conceptual modelling, coverage of logical process and data models, and the use of SQL and other facilities provided by database management systems.
FIT3063-Human-computer interaction:This unit aims to introduce the systematic top-down network design approach for designing enterprise computer networks. A top down process focuses on requirements analysis and architecture design, which should be completed before the selection of specific network components. The unit provides students with tested processes and tools to help them understand traffic flow, communication protocol behaviour, and internetworking technologies. On completion of the unit, students are equipped to design enterprise computer networks that meet an enterprise users requirements for functionality, capacity, performance, availability, scalability, affordability, security, and manageability.
FIT3066-Information technology strategy and management:This unit is designed to describe the role of enterprise systems as part of the larger IT infrastructure of large scale organisations. mySAP ERP solution in combination with SAP Best Practice Baseline Packages will be used to introduce students to the complexity of enterprise wide systems through tutorial workshops where appropriate.
FIT3068-Systems integration:This unit will give students insight into how to identify, create, and pursue opportunities for new products and services. These opportunities have been growing rapidly due to the steady increase in digital work flows and digital customers. Google, Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, and Flickr are well-known examples of digital entrepreneurship; there are many thousands of additional examples. Specifically, this unit includes the study of entrepreneurship, opportunity analysis, feasibility analysis, intellectual property, market research, accounting, financial management, sources of funding, business models, teamwork, and business planning. Understanding these topics will allow students to more readily identify, analyse, and develop opportunities for the creation of new products and services.
FIT3072-Managing business records:Students will work 12 hours per week for a 15 week period (or the summer equivalent) at a commercial multimedia studio. There under the joint supervision of an industry sponsor and their lecturer, students will undertake a portfolio of commercial projects for business, government, university, or non-government organisations. All projects will be driven by client requirements and timetables. Work will be supervised and subject to formal peer review by unit participants and formal review by peers and an academic lecturer.
FIT3073-Data mining:This unit provides students with an understanding of how to manage and govern the IT function in business organisations. It builds on themes relating to managing IT as an organisational resource and discusses IT function from strategy and governance perspectives. The unit also emphasises the relationship between theoretical knowledge and its practical application using cases and real examples. Core concepts discussed in this unit include the strategic context of IT management, alignment between business strategy and IT strategy, IT governance processes, various types of IT processes, organising and managing the IT function (including the role of the CIO), legal and ethical concerns of IT, evaluating IT portfolio management, IT provisioning issues, including outsourcing.
FIT3077-Software engineering: Architecture and design:This unit provides both a theoretical and practical overview of real time enterprise systems. Real time enterprise systems are configurable information systems packages, implemented on-line that integrate people, technology and information processing. The three integrated processes within and across functional areas are seamlessly interconnected and almost time-lag free in an organisation. Topics include systems and technology background, ES evolution, ES lifecycle, implementation and configuration, ES and electronic commerce and ES success and failure factors. The theoretical component will be augmented by detailed case studies which focus on problems faced by real-life companies. For the practical component, laboratory exercises using a well-known enterprise system will be used to deepen student understanding.
FIT3080-Intelligent systems:This unit provides an overview of computational science and an introduction to its central methods. It covers the role of computational tools and methods in 21st century science, emphasising modelling and simulation. It introduces a variety of models, providing contrasting studies on: continuous versus discrete models; analytical versus numerical models; deterministic versus stochastic models; and static versus dynamic models. Other topics include: Monte-Carlo methods; epistemology of simulations; visualisation; high-dimensional data analysis; optimisation; limitations of numerical methods; high-performance computing and data-intensive research. A general overview is provided for each main topic, followed by a detailed technical exploration of one or a few methods selected from the area. These are applied in tutorials and laboratories which also acquaint students with standard scientific computing software (e.g., Mathematica, Matlab, Maple, Sage). Applications are drawn from disciplines including Physics, Biology, Bioinformatics, Chemistry, Social Science.
FIT3081-Image processing:This unit develops the students' ability to design, implement and maintain moderately complex, realistically-sized programs using an Agile software development methodology. It builds upon the basic programming techniques introduced in introductory programming unit and offers the first introduction to the implementation of more complex real-world programs. Examples of such systems include compilers and interpreters, simulations, visualisation tools, drawing packages, database systems, graphical games. Such systems may be implemented in the context of non-traditional computing environments such as smartphone "apps". The unit may offer students the opportunity to get acquainted with a second programming language within the procedural-object oriented paradigm, such as C++, Python or one of their cousins, depending on the scope of the project chosen in a particular semester. The unit bridges between core programming knowledge and the large-scale software engineering context. It will emphasise the implementation and use of intermediate to advanced data structures (such as search trees, hash structures, graphs and graph algorithms etc.) and the embedding into an actual computing system (i.e. interacting with the O/S, networking components etc).
FIT3082-Programming languages and paradigms:This unit introduces students to fundamentals of distributed networked environment. It provides knowledge of internetworking standards and understanding of the networking architecture, technology and operation.
FIT3083-e-Business software technologies:Modern computer systems rely increasingly on distributed computing mechanisms, implemented often as clusters, web services, grids and clouds. Distributed computing systems can provide seamless (or web-like) access to a variety of networked resources, e.g. processing cores, large data stores and information repositories, expensive instruments, high-speed links, sensor networks, and multimedia services for a wide range of applications. This unit provides foundation knowledge and understanding of the basic mechanisms required to implement distributed computing systems, especially clouds, grids, web services and clusters. Topics covered include: Introduction to parallel and distributed computing mechanisms, concurrency and synchronisation, monitors, deadlocks, concurrent program analysis, computational and service-oriented grids, clusters and clouds. Distributed applications, and their performance and reliability in relation to processor and network performance constraints.
FIT3084-Multimedia programming and the world wide web:Modern computer systems contain parallelism in both hardware and software. This unit covers parallelism in both general purpose and application specific computer architectures and the programming paradigms that allow parallelism to be exploited in software. The unit examines shared memory and message passing paradigms in hardware and software; concurrency, multithreading and synchronicity; parallel, clustered and distributed supercomputing models, languages and software tools and development environments. Students will program in these paradigms.
FIT3085-Numerical computing:This unit is intended to provide practical experience in designing, developing and testing a non-trivial computer science project. Projects are generally software-based, although sometimes they may involve hardware development or investigation of theory. Projects cover the whole process of software (or hardware) development, from analysis through design to implementation and testing. Comprehensive written documentation on the project is required. Students are assigned in groups to a project supervisor. There are no lectures in this unit, although students will be expected to attend regular meetings with their project supervisor. The application problem will normally be drawn from the student's field of specialisation.
FIT3086-Project management:This unit exposes students to a variety of industry standard games engine environments and development techniques. Students will develop an appreciation and basic working knowledge of a number of different platforms used in contemporary games development. The unit aims to provide students with a practical insight into contemporary, industry standard, games development process and games engines. The studio environment will facilitate considerable peer interaction, in particular in the critique of game engines and the development of game prototypes. The unit provides knowledge and skills, which students can apply within their game development projects in the third year studio project/s (FIT3039/FIT3040) and across all subsequent units.
FIT3088-Computer graphics:This unit will focus on research into the latest developments in the field of information technology, including innovative technology developments involving human computer interaction, information visualisation of complex data and emerging interface techniques. Students will learn valuable research and communication skills as they investigate and share with their peers the impact of emergent technologies and interfaces on society. The content presented in the lectures will focus on grand challenges in the field of information technology and on emerging trends. Students will apply their theoretical understanding to a practical project negotiated with the lecturer using a learning contract.
FIT3094-Artificial life, artificial intelligence and virtual environments:This unit provides students with an understanding of the tasks and the main issues associated with the management of data and electronic records in modern organisations. The management of business records has always been an important function in any large organisation, but the use of digital technologies has added greatly to the scope and complexity of the task, and to the number and diversity of issues which must be addressed. The unit will examine some of the key areas in which these changes have affected the data management function in organisations. This will be used as a basis for explaining the nature of specialist work in this field and the professional roles and responsibilities associated with it.
FIT3095-Creating narrative in multimedia:This unit provides students with insights into key areas of current interest and concern confronting practising IT professionals. The unit is based around case studies of organisational experiences with the application of technologies and IT-based applications to meet their information needs. These case studies will be used to compare and contrast theory and practice in the use of IT and IT-based applications, and identify the implications for IT professionals and the impact on their roles and responsibilities. Students will be required to conduct an investigation of a case of current interest and analyse and report on the lessons it provides for IT professional practice.
FIT3098-Social informatics:The unit will provide students with fundamentals and theoretical foundations of Network Administration. In addition, students will acquire practical skills needed to plan, install, configure and manage networks through laboratory activities and projects.
FIT3099-Knowledge management:In recent years the world has seen an explosion in the quantity and variety of data routinely recorded and analyzed by research and industry, prompting some social commentators to refer to this phenomenon as the rise of "big data," and the analysts and practitioners who investigate the data as "data scientists." The data may come from a variety of sources, including scientific experiments and measurements, or may be recorded from human interactions such as browsing data or social networks on the Internet, mobile phone usage or financial transactions. Many companies too, are realising the value of their data for analysing customer behavior and preferences, recognising patterns of behaviour such as credit card usage or insurance claims to detect fraud, as well as more accurately evaluating risk and increasing profit. In order to obtain insights from big data new analytical techniques are required by practitioners. These include computationally intensive and interactive approaches such as visualisation, clustering and data mining. The management and processing of large data sets requires the development of enhanced computational resources and new algorithms to work across distributed computers. This unit will introduce students to the analysis and management of big data using current techniques and open source and proprietary software tools. Data and case studies will be drawn from diverse sources including health and informatics, life sciences, web traffic and social networking, business data including transactions, customer traffic, scientific research and experimental data. The general principles of analysis, investigation and reporting will be covered. Students will be encouraged to critically reflect on the data analysis process within their own domain of interest.
FIT3101-B2C internet commerce:Students participate full time in a research and development placement over a 22-week period. Students are required to apply their knowledge, skills, professional attitudes and ethical behaviour in a research context. They develop their communication, time management, self-reflection and teamwork skills, experience a professional research and development environment and obtain feedback from supervisors on their performance. Students will be supervised by a supervisor and will be visited by the CE or academic nominees.
FIT3102-Operations management systems:This unit introduces the problem of machine learning and the major kinds of statistical learning used in data analysis. Learning and the different kinds of learning will be covered and their usage discussed. Evaluation techniques and typical application contexts will presented. A series of different models and algorithms will be presented in an exploratory way: looking at typical data, the basic models and algorithms and their use: linear and logistic regression, support vector machines, Bayesian networks, decision trees, random forests, k-means and clustering, neural-networks, deep learning, and others. Finally, two specialist topics will be covered briefly, statistical learning theory and working with big data.
FIT3103-Business case development:This advanced unit builds on the concepts learnt in introductory algorithms and data structures study. It covers the latest algorithmic paradigms and problem-solving techniques required to address real-world programming challenges. It explores, in depth, the design and analysis of space-efficient/compact data structures and effective problem solving strategies to be used with them. Topics include advanced sorting and searching algorithms, succinct/compact trees, string and graph data structures, advanced hashing and table lookup methods
FIT3105-Security and identity management:Advanced visual effects builds upon the skills learnt in Creative computing foundations, Creative computing studio 1 and Foundations of 3D, developing an understanding of the multimedia development process, tools and techniques as applied to advanced time based media manipulation in multimedia content production. It introduces students to a range of techniques by which video can be manipulated and enhanced after the original material has been recorded by combining it with 2D and 3D CGI elements.
FIT3107-Advanced programming for database applications:Building upon the skills learned in the Multimedia Development Major core units (Creative computing foundations and Creative computing studio 1 & 2), FIT3157 introduces students to the design and development of mobile online media using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and WordPress. This unit is broadly divided into three parts, with groups of four weeks comprising each part. The first and second part of the unit, students will learn the principles and practicalities of responsive web design, touch based interaction and the programming of mobile functionality and animated visual effects. The final four weeks of the unit will cover WordPress content management and theme development, the managing of custom content in WordPress and the building of dynamic WordPress sites.
FIT3118-Database design and administration:The objective of this unit is to introduce students to quantitative modelling techniques commonly used for business decision making. This includes the analytical methods used to understand, model and design business processes, and the application of IT tools to real-world decision making situations. Techniques covered include decision making under uncertainty, linear and nonlinear programming, sequential decision making, forecasting, and simulation. On completion of this unit, the students are expected to recognise a complex decision making situation and to build a corresponding quantitative model. They are also expected to solve the model by applying techniques covered in this unit, to interpret results and finally, to provide 'analyst-type' recommendations. The unit includes extensive use of advanced modelling tools available in Microsoft Excel as well as some VBA programming. Students will also gain hands-on experience in using simulation software as a tool for analysing business processes.
FIT3121-Archival systems:This unit covers the internal mechanism of computers and how they are organised and programmed. Topics include combinatorial and sequential logic, Boolean Algebra, counters, ripple adders, tree adders, memory/addressing, busses, speed, DMA, data representation, machine arithmetic, microprogramming, caches and cache architectures, virtual memory and translation look-aside buffers, vectored interrupts, polled interrupts, pipelined architecture, superscalar architecture, data dependency, hazards, CISC, RISC, VLIW machine architectures.
FIT3122-Information and knowledge management systems:This unit provides practical experience in researching, designing, developing and testing a substantial computer science project. Projects are generally software-based, although sometimes they may involve hardware development or investigation of theory. Projects cover the whole process of software (or hardware) development, from analysis through design to implementation and testing. Comprehensive written documentation on the project is required. Students are assigned in groups to a project supervisor. There are no lectures in this unit, although students will be expected meet weekly with their project supervisor, and attend 2-hour project management seminars during the first six weeks. The unit is the first part of a 12-credit point project sequence; the second part and exit point for the project is FIT3162.
FIT3123-Information access:This unit provides practical experience in researching, designing, developing and testing a non-trivial computer science project. Projects are generally software-based, although sometimes they may involve hardware development or investigation of theory. Projects cover the whole process of software (or hardware) development, from analysis through design to implementation and testing. Comprehensive written documentation on the project is required. Students are assigned in groups to a project supervisor. There are no lectures in this unit, although students will be expected to attend regular meetings with their project supervisor. The unit is the second part of a 12-credit point project sequence; the first part and entry point for the project is FIT3161.
FIT3124-Professional practice:This unit provides practical experience in researching, designing, developing and evaluating a non-trivial data science project. Projects involve whole or part of the data science process (visualisation, analysis, algorithms, etc.) but can also be software-based, or they may involve investigation of theory. Projects if software-based should cover analysis through design to implementation and sting. Comprehensive written documentation on the project is required. Students are assigned in groups to a project supervisor. There are no lectures in this unit, although students will be expected to attend regular meetings with their project supervisor. The unit is the first part of a 12-credit point project sequence; the second part and exit point for the project is FIT3164.
FIT3125-Information organisation:This unit provides practical experience in researching, designing, developing and testing a non-trivial data science project. Projects involve whole or part of the data science process (visualisation, analysis, algorithms, etc.) but can also be software-based, or they may involve investigation of theory. Projects if software-based should cover analysis through design to implementation and testing. Comprehensive written documentation on the project is required. Students are assigned in groups to a project supervisor. There are no lectures in this unit, although students will be expected to attend regular meetings with their project supervisor. The unit is the second part of a 12-credit point project sequence; the first part and entry point for the project is FIT3163.
FIT3126-Applications with C++:The unit introduces computer networks with an explicit software and system-centric focus. It provides foundation skills in data communications, networks, and associated software interfaces, and introduces basic principles in network design, configuration, management and security.
FIT3127-Industry-based learning:This unit provides a broad coverage of digital ICT forensics. Students will examine definitions of evidence as they apply to investigations involving the seizure and examination of information technology devices. The unit will introduce students to various tools, techniques and algorithms that may be employed by investigators for acquisition, preservation and analysis of evidence. Disk-based (local) and network (remote) forensic environments will be explored. Students will also learn of the impediments and complicating factors that can threaten forensic investigations.
FIT3128-Database systems design:FIT3169 introduces students to immersive environment design and production principles using game engine prototyping software. Building upon the 3D creation and editing skills in the prerequisite unit FIT1033 Foundations of 3D, students will learn how to create game levels, import assets (models, sounds, animations), extend supplied code (JavaScript) to visualise interactive virtual environments for a range of applications and devices.
FIT3130-Computer network design and deployment:In this unit, students will undertake a full-year software development project in a self-managing team. Students will apply the skills they learned in prerequisite and co-requisite units to a larger project than any they have encountered to date. Through attempting larger-scale software development they will learn how the techniques they have encountered in isolation work together as an integrated methodology to make such complex projects feasible. The project will be managed through a heavyweight process model such as the Spiral Model, to ensure students are exposed to a representative example of both heavyweight and lightweight processes (which are covered in FIT2101) through the BSE core. For the first time in their degrees, students will solicit and document requirements from client proxies who are not IT professionals. This builds their communication skills with other stakeholders in preparation for the industry-based project or IBL.
FIT3133-Integrated business systems SAP:This unit will provide an introduction to the concepts of database design and usage and the related issues of data management. Students will develop skills in planning, designing, and implementing a data model using an enterprise-scale relational database system (Oracle). Methods and techniques will also be presented to populate, retrieve, update and implement integrity features on data in the implemented database system.
FIT3134-IT-based entrepreneurship:This unit focuses on the capture, editing and creation/generation of digital sounds and soundscapes for virtual reality environments and games. Students will gain an understanding of the physical and acoustic properties of digital sounds, their communicative capacities, and learn how to layer, manipulate, synthesise and adaptively code digital sound waveforms. In their assignments, students will apply this understanding in the design and creative production of a soundscapes, soundtracks and the sound design of immersive environments.
FIT3135-Commercial experience in multimedia systems:This unit aims to introduce secure software development issues from the design stage, through to implementation, testing and deployment. Topics studied include the secure software development life cycle, secure software design principles, threat evaluation models, secure coding and development practices, software security testing, deployment and maintenance. Students are provided with a range of practical exercises and tasks to reinforce their skills including: identification of security bugs in programs written in different programming languages, design, implementation, and testing of secure concurrent and networked applications and identification of vulnerabilities in networked and mobile/wireless applications.
FIT3136-IT governance and strategy for business:This unit provides students with an understanding of how to manage and govern the IT function in business organisations. It builds on themes relating to managing IT as an organisational resource and discusses IT function from strategy and governance perspectives. The unit also emphasises the relationship between theoretical knowledge and its practical application using cases and real examples. Core concepts discussed in this unit include the strategic context of IT management, alignment between business strategy and IT strategy, IT governance processes, various types of IT processes, organising and managing the IT function (including the role of the CIO), legal and ethical concerns of IT, evaluating IT portfolio management, IT provisioning issues, including outsourcing.
FIT3138-Real time enterprise systems:This unit explores the underpinning theories, principles and practices of interface design to achieve usable computer-based systems. It examines issues in the design of system interfaces from a number of perspectives: user, programmer, designer. It explores the application of the relevant theories in practice. The unit will cover topics such as methods and tools for developing effective user interfaces, evaluation methods such as the conduct of usability and heuristic evaluations, design of appropriate interface elements including the design of menus and other interaction styles. The unit will also focus on designing for a diverse range of users and environments.
FIT3139-Computational science:This unit will introduce advanced concepts in the areas of database design, SQL, query optimisation and the handling of unstructured data (XML) both externally and within a database. The issue of "Big Data" and the role played by BI technologies and data warehouses will be explored.
FIT3140-Advanced programming:Data visualisation is a powerful technique that allows us to use our visual system to understand data. Interactive data visualisation is now common in business, engineering and design and the social and physical sciences. This unit introduces the main kinds of information graphics and interactive visualisation systems and their areas of application. It investigates the reasons why visualisation can be effective and based on this students will gain experience in critically assessing data visualisations and in designing their own visualisations. Students will learn how to create visualisations with representative computer tools and gain experience in creating a data visualisation for an application domain of their choice.
FIT3142-Distributed computing:FIT4000 is an extension unit for all FIT undergraduate Honours degree students, where appropriate. Entry only available on approval by the Associate Dean (Education) where exceptional circumstances have been determined.
FIT3143-Parallel computing:Modern computer systems contain parallelism in both hardware and software. This unit covers parallelism in both general purpose and application specific computer architectures and the programming paradigms that allow parallelism to be exploited in software. The unit examines both shared memory and message passing paradigms in both hardware and software; concurrency, multithreading and synchronicity; parallel, clustered and distributed supercomputing models and languages. Students will program in these paradigms.
FIT3144-Advanced computer science project:Students will undertake a large project and work in groups on a software project for a client. The client may be internal to Monash or from the industry or research organisation. In general, projects involve all aspects of the system development lifecycle. Groups are responsible for their own project management, with guidance from a supervisor. Some projects will warrant students working in pairs or individually.
FIT3145-Game design studio 2:This unit introduces students to independent research. It is a core requirement for the Bachelor of Software Engineering (Honours) degree. Due to the nature of IT and Software Engineering, a wide range of project types can be offered to students. Some project components are of a practical nature and may involve some software development and/or experimentation, while other components are of a more theoretical nature.
FIT3146-Emergent technologies and interfaces:This unit covers the fundamental products, processes and techniques for system validation and verifications including testing methodologies, static program analysis and code quality measurement and monitoring. Open-source tools will be used to apply in practice knowledge learnt about software testing from a theoretical perspective. Inspection and testing methodologies, analysis of artefacts, robustness, performance analysis configuration management, quality assurance plan and standards, compliance, assessment, certification issues are covered. It shows how to predict, analyse and control defects in complex software systems.
FIT3147-Managing data:This unit exposes students to research across the range of IT disciplines, preparing them to conduct research in their home discipline. It provides broad coverage of the issues, concepts, methods and techniques associated with Computer Science, Software Engineering, Information Systems and Information Management. It introduces students to major research philosophies and paradigms, the principles of research design, research ethics, and research methods and techniques of data collection and analysis appropriate to IT research generally and to their sub-discipline specifically. It covers oral and written communication skills. Skills developed and knowledge acquired from this unit will prepare students to conduct and communicate their own research, as well as to be knowledgeable and critical interpreters of others' research.
FIT3148-Cases in information and technology:This unit will develop students capabilities to undertake research in the information systems field. Students will learn various research methods and study published research papers in which these research methods have been used. In particular, students will learn to evaluate how well the research methods have been used in published research papers. Students will also develop an understanding of some of the exciting, leading-edge research in the information systems field. This understanding may enable students to identify research topics that they would like to pursue, perhaps in an honours, masters, or PhD thesis.
FIT3149-Network administration:This unit is a research unit and an elective unit for the Honours degrees of the Faculty of Information Technology. Due to the nature of the area of IT, a wide range of reading unit types can be offered to students. Some project components are of a practical nature and may involve some software development and/or experimentation, while other components are of a more theoretical nature. Details for the reading unit will be defined and approved individually for each student and will include objectives, assessment details, due dates and an initial reading list. Assessment comprises a research paper or review (6000-10,000 words), project report, or equivalent. Enrolment into reading units and allocation of a supervising academic will be approved by the Associate Dean (Education).
FIT3152-Data analytics:Methods from Artificial Intelligence (AI) form the basis for many advanced information systems. These techniques address problems that are difficult to solve or not efficiently solvable with conventional techniques. Building on the undergraduate curriculum this unit introduces the student to advanced AI methods and their applications in information systems.
FIT3153-Research-based learning:Algorithms are the most fundamental area for all aspects of computer science and software engineering. Discrete structures, such as those treated in graph theory, set theory, combinatorics and symbolic logic form the mathematical underpinning of the study of algorithms. As well-designed algorithms and data structures are essential for the good performance of an information system, an in-depth understanding of the theoretical properties of algorithms is essential for any computer scientist. As importantly, the theoretical investigation of algorithms leads to a deeper understanding of problem structures and classes of problems and the knowledge of a large variety of algorithm types enables the designer to approach a new problem from different angles. Topics for this unit may include: Computability and Complexity, Automata Theory, Advanced Analysis and Design of Algorithms, Parallel and Distributed Algorithms, Numerical Algorithms, Cryptographic Algorithms, Spatial/geometric Algorithms, Approximation Algorithms and Randomised Algorithms.
FIT3154-Advanced data analysis:All sciences are increasingly relying on computational support and the growth of many branches of science has only become possible due to the availability of efficient computational methods. The common basis of such methods are; numerical methods and high performance computing. Topics for this unit include: Numerical Methods, High Performance and Parallel Computing, Optimisation and Operations Research Bioinformatics, Simulation, Visualisation and Modelling.
FIT3155-Advanced data structures and algorithms:This unit introduces the student to independent research. Most projects are software-oriented, although some projects may be purely theoretical and others may involve hardware work.
FIT3156-Advanced visual effects:The first component of this unit looks at digital communication technologies such as: local area networks; metropolitan area networks; satellite networks; ISDN; modem techniques; digital networks. The second component covers protocols including: the structure, coordination and management of the Internet; Internet standards development process; Internet link layer protocols; IP (V4 and V6) and ICMP protocols; TCP and UDP; the Internet addressing structure, including domain naming and the DNS/LDAP systems and protocols; bridging systems and spanning-tree protocols; Internet packet routing techniques and protocols; mobile IP; Real Time Protocols; the major common applications.
FIT3157-Advanced web design:This unit looks at a range of security problems in information systems, namely physical security, network security and software security. Within these areas, topics covered include risk analysis, authentification, access control, and crypto techniques. It looks at various management issues, including disparate application examples, distributed systems authentication, contingency planning, audit and review. A range of security applications are used as examples.
FIT3158-Business decision modelling:This unit will cover network strategy development; network design principals; Telecom services; network performance; network topologies; network implementation; case studies ; case studies; traffic models; limitations of traffic models; network management protocols.
FIT3159-Computer architecture:Introduction to neural networks and their applications. Simple neural networks for pattern classification. Multilayered neural networks (backprogration and its variations for faster training and adaptive architectures). Unsupervised neural networks (Kohonen Self Organising Maps). Case studies. Introduction to evolutionary computation and its possible applications. Genetic algorithms. Modeling and simulation with genetic algorithm in economic systems. Genetic programming and design issues of evolutionary algorithms. Hands-on experience to solve real-world business and economic problems using available software tools.
FIT3160-Mobile data management:This unit examines the principles and practice of modelling and analysis of business systems as a support for the decision making activities. At the completion of the subject the student should understand some of the most commonly used computer modelling techniques used in business and industry and be familiar with the applications of these techniques to business related problems. Topics will include breakeven analysis, linear programming models, various aspects of decision making, waiting lines systems and simulation, network problems, and forecasting techniques.
FIT3161-Computer science project 1:Introduction to quantitative methods and statistics in business and commerce. Topics include presentation of business data, index numbers, financial and economic performance indicators, accessing and using Australian Bureau of Statistics data, measures of central tendency and dispersion, marginal analysis, frequency and probability distributions, regression and correlation, simple hypothesis testing, sampling methods and applications, statistics in quality management with applications in service and production industry.
FIT3162-Computer science project 2:Distributed database systems: clients, servers, application servers, database servers, clusters of servers. Distributed database architectures: single-tier, two-tier, multi-tier. Implementation issues: performance, security, transactions. Enterprise application server capabilities: hot deployment, clean shutdown, clustering, farming, load balancing, automatic fail-over. Enterprise application coding: DBMS access, distributed components, messaging services, authentication, authorization, encryption, transactions. Exterprise application software development tools. Access to the Universitys computer systems through an Internet service provider is compulsory for off-campus students.
FIT3163-Data science project 1:OSI security architecture, common information risks and requirements, operation of encryption techniques, digital signatures, public key infrastructure, authentication and non-repudiation; intrusion detection and response, firewall defence; wireless security, privacy and ethics issues, security configurations to PC based applications, design of information systems with security compliance and security standards and protocols.
FIT3164-Data science project 2:This unit investigates the use of object-oriented languages to implement application software. Topics covered are aspects of object-oriented design, object-oriented programming, styles and idioms related to the C++ programming language, memory management, exception handling, the C++ standard library, performance and efficiency. Typical application areas studied include graphical user interfaces, event driven systems, simulations, and distributed systems
FIT3165-Computer networks:The Case study provides the opportunity for students to focus their skills of system analysis and development, software design and development, documentation development and quality, system and software quality, interpersonal relationships and formal and quality documentation in the development of a solution to the Case Study project. Working as members of supervised teams, students undertake the analysis, design, documentation and implementation of an appropriate software system to assist with the resolution of a realistic business problem. As part of their success, teams will decide their methodology, and demonstrate quality planning and project planning skills.
FIT3167-Mobile communications 2:This unit looks at the design and implementation issues of database management systems. Advanced database design using the object-relational approach and multi-dimensional database design are explored. Record, file and index structures are dealt with at the basic level. Higher level details of consistency, atomicity and durability are introduced along with modern trends in databases.
FIT3168-IT forensics:This unit focuses on the design, construction and deployment of mobile applications, with particular focus on Android and iOS platforms. Areas such as mobile data management and networking, MVC design patterns, and mobile GUI design considerations will be explored. The unit will emphasise hands-on, practical experience with actual devices and emulators. Research topics and ideas will also be covered for post-graduate students.
FIT3169-Immersive environments:Content covered in this unit, includes: Static and dynamic web pages; ASP.Net environment; HTML forms reviewed; Standard server controls; C# language; Page life cycles; Event driven programming and postback; C# basics; Objects in C#; Namespaces and core objects; State handling; Objects and structured data; Validation controls; Master pages; Themes and skins; Navigation controls; Using data sources; Reading and updating data stores; XML files as data store; Using Grids; Data binding; Configuration and optimisation; Authentication; Email and accessing file systems; Components and user controls; Code behind; .NET Assemblies; Custom Server Controls; Using Ajax; Mobile Web page development; Styling page output; and New device support.
FIT3170-Software engineering practice:Students are on placement full time in a defined, graduate level role during a 22-week placement period at established partners of the Faculty of IT industry based learning program including major global companies, leading Australian companies and worldwide consultancies. The students on placement apply the knowledge, skills and practices of professional attitudes and behaviour developed in their academic units. They develop communication, time management, self-reflection and customer service skills in business situations, experience and participate professionally in the corporate environment and obtain feedback from experienced supervisors on their performance.
FIT3171-Databases:This unit provides a detailed understanding of the underpinning theories, principles and practices of interface design for computer-based systems. It examines issues in the design of system interfaces from a number of perspectives: user, programmer, designer. It explores the application of the relevant theories in practice. The unit will cover topics such as methods and tools for developing effective user interfaces, evaluation methods such as the conduct of usability and heuristic evaluations, design of appropriate interface elements including the design of menus and other interaction styles. The unit will also focus on designing for a diverse range of users and environments.
FIT3172-Sonics:This unit is a research unit and a requirement for the FIT Honours degrees. Due to the nature of IT, a wide range of Honours project types can be offered to students. Some project components are of a practical nature and may involve some software development and/or experimentation, while other components are of a more theoretical nature.
FIT3173-Software security:This unit will focus on research into the latest developments in the field of information technology, including innovative technology developments involving human computer interaction, information visualisation of complex data and emerging interface techniques. Students will learn valuable research and communication skills as they investigate and share with their peers the impact of emergent technologies and interfaces on society. The content presented in the lectures will focus on grand challenges in the field of information technology and on emerging trends. Students will apply their theoretical understanding to a practical project negotiated with the lecturer using a learning contract.
FIT3174-IT strategy and governance:The unit introduces computer networks with an explicit software and system-centric focus. It provides foundation skills in data communications, networks, and associated software interfaces, and introduces basic principles in network design, configuration, management and security.
FIT3175-Usability:This unit is a research unit and a requirement for the FIT Honours degrees. Due to the nature of IT, a wide range of Honours project types can be offered to students. Some project components are of a practical nature and may involve some software development and/or experimentation, while other components are of a more theoretical nature.
FIT3176-Advanced database design:This unit is a research unit and a requirement for the FIT Honours degrees. Due to the nature of IT, a wide range of Honours project types can be offered to students. Some project components are of a practical nature and may involve some software development and/or experimentation, while other components are of a more theoretical nature.
FIT3177-Software development studio:This unit is a research unit and a core unit for all Faculty of Information Technology Honours degrees. Due to the nature of IT, a wide range of Honours project types can be offered to students. Some project components are of a practical nature and may involve some software development and/or experimentation, while other components are of a more theoretical nature. This unit forms part of the sequence of units comprising the Honours thesis in the Faculty of Information Technology. Two exit points exist for the Honours thesis, FIT4444 (24 pts) and FIT4448 (18 pts). The 24 credit point exit point is applicable to: Bachelor of Business Information Systems (Honours), Bachelor of Computer Science (Honours), Honours degree of Bachelor of Computer and Information Sciences, Bachelor of Information Technology and Systems (Honours) and Bachelor of Informatics and Computation Advanced (Honours). The 18 credit point exit point is applicable to: Honours stream in the Bachelor of Software Engineering.
FIT3178-Advanced mobile applications:This unit is a research unit and a core requirement for all FIT Honours degrees. Due to the nature of IT, a wide range of Honours project types can be offered to students. Some project components are of a practical nature and may involve some software development and/or experimentation, while other components are of a more theoretical nature. This unit forms part of the sequence of units comprising the Honours thesis in the Faculty of Information Technology. Two exit points exist for the Honours thesis, FIT4444 (24 pts) and FIT4448 (18 pts). The 24 credit point exit point is applicable to: Bachelor of Business Information Systems (Honours), Bachelor of Computer Science (Honours), Honours degree of Bachelor of Computer and Information Sciences, Bachelor of Information Technology and Systems (Honours) and Bachelor of Informatics and Computation Advanced (Honours). The 18 credit point exit point is applicable to: Honours stream in the Bachelor of Software Engineering.
FIT3179-Data visualisation:This unit is a research unit and a core requirement for all FIT Honours degrees. Due to the nature of IT, a wide range of Honours project types can be offered to students. Some project components are of a practical nature and may involve some software development and/or experimentation, while other components are of a more theoretical nature. This unit forms part of the sequence of units comprising the Honours thesis in the Faculty of Information Technology. Two exit points exist for the Honours thesis, FIT4444 (24pts) and FIT4448 (18pts). The 24 credit point exit point is applicable to: Bachelor of Business Information Systems (Honours), Bachelor of Computer Science (Honours), Honours degree of Bachelor of Computer and Information Sciences, Bachelor of Information Technology and Systems (Honours) and Bachelor of Informatics and Computation Advanced (Honours). The 18 credit point exit point is applicable to: Honours stream in the Bachelor of Software Engineering.
FIT3180-Data management for health informatics:This unit is a research unit and a core requirement for all FIT Honours degrees. Due to the nature of IT, a wide range of Honours project types can be offered to students. Some project components are of a practical nature and may involve some software development and/or experimentation, while other components are of a more theoretical nature. This unit forms part of the sequence of units comprising the Honours thesis in the Faculty of Information Technology. Two exit points exist for the Honours thesis, FIT4444 (24 pts) and FIT4448 (18 pts). The 24 credit point exit point is applicable to: Bachelor of Business Information Systems (Honours), Bachelor of Computer Science (Honours), Honours degree of Bachelor of Computer and Information Sciences, Bachelor of Information Technology and Systems (Honours) and Bachelor of Informatics and Computation Advanced (Honours). The 18 credit point exit point is applicable to: Honours stream in the Bachelor of Software Engineering.
FIT4000-Honours thesis extension:This unit is a research unit and a core requirement for the Bachelor of Software Engineering Honours stream. Due to the nature of IT, a wide range of Honours project types can be offered to students. Some project components are of a practical nature and may involve some software development and/or experimentation, while other components are of a more theoretical nature. This unit forms part of the sequence of units comprising the Honours thesis in the Faculty of Information Technology. Two exit points exist for the Honours thesis, FIT4444 (24 pts) and FIT4448 (18 pts). The 24 credit point exit point is applicable to: Bachelor of Business Information Systems (Honours), Bachelor of Computer Science (Honours), Honours degree of Bachelor of Computer and Information Sciences, Bachelor of Information Technology and Systems (Honours) and Bachelor of Informatics and Computation Advanced (Honours). The 18 credit point exit point is applicable to: Honours stream in the Bachelor of Software Engineering.
FIT4001-Parallel and distributed systems:This unit is a research unit and a requirement for the FIT Honours degrees. Due to the nature of IT, a wide range of Honours project types can be offered to students. Some project components are of a practical nature and may involve some software development and/or experimentation, while other components are of a more theoretical nature.
FIT4002-Software engineering industry experience studio project:FIT5000 is an extension unit for all FIT coursework masters minor thesis degrees, where appropriate. Entry only available on approval by the Associate Dean (Education) where exceptional circumstances have been determined.
FIT4003-Software engineering research project:This unit aims to introduce the secure software development issues including secure software development life cycle, secure software design principles, secure coding practices, threat evaluation models, secure software testing, deployment and maintenance, software development and security policy integration. Students are provided with a range of practical exercises and tasks to reinforce their skills including: identification of security bugs in programs written in different programming languages, design, implementation, and testing of secure concurrent and networked applications, identification of vulnerabilities in networked and mobile/wireless applications. In addition, students will learn input validation techniques to minimise security risks, man-in-the-middle attack techniques to be able to build more secure networked applications, practical secure software testing techniques to be able to test applications for security bugs.
FIT4004-System validation and verification, quality and standards:The Digital Communications project requires a student to carry out a significant individual task in the Digital Communications field under academic supervision. The project can be conducted in a variety of topic areas, which may include: the design, development, prototype construction and testing of a significant protocol or device item in software or hardware an in-depth investigation and report of a relevant topic in information technology an in-depth investigation and report of an employment based topic with innovative and/or creative solutions. The project topic and summary must be approved by the project coordinator prior to its commencement.
FIT4005-Research methods in information technology:In-depth coverage of the protocols used to operate the Internet and intranets, and a selection of major applications, including specific implementations of the protocols and systems. The topics include: Advanced Internet Addressing: IPv6, subnetting, supernetting. TCP Performance and Enhancements: Reno, New-Reno, Fast Retransmit and Recovery, etc. Unicast and multicast routing protocols: BGP4, OSPF, MOSPF, DVMRP, etc. Messaging systems: SMTP, MIME, POP3, IMAP, World Wide Web systems: client-server implementations, HTTP, Real Time Protocols: RTP, RTCP, RSVP. Security and Firewall. Quality of Service issues: DiffServ and IntServ. Network management and Remote File activities.
FIT4007-Advanced topics in information systems:This unit will cover network design, performance modelling and analysis. Queuing models (M/M/1, M/M/k, M/M/k/k, M/G/1), networks of queues. Multi-access systems (splitting, reservation, carrier sensing), routing techniques (shortest path, Bellman-Ford, Dijkstra, adaptive routing, flooding). Quality of service (QoS) aspects, flow control, connection admission control and other traffic management functions - ATM, IntServ and DiffServ models. Network topology design and performance modelling, design considerations for local or wide area networks, including GEPON, cable and wireless networks. Introductory probability and graph theory.
FIT4008-Reading unit:This unit enables students to acquire knowledge on the fundamental concepts, theory and techniques of digital image, video and audio signal coding, quantisation, motion estimation and compensation, vector quantisation and variable-length coding techniques. It also covers the international standards for audio-visual compression, including JPEG, H.26X and MPEG.
FIT4009-Advanced topics in intelligent systems:This unit is an optional research/thesis unit for FIT coursework masters degrees, taken in the final stage of the Masters Professional or Masters course. FIT5014 is a 24-point unit taken over a single semester. It is also possible to take the 24-point Minor Thesis over more than one semester by enrolling in units that collectively comprise 24 points, ie FIT5016 (6 points); FIT5017 (12 points); and FIT5018 (18 points).
FIT4010-Advanced topics in algorithms and discrete structures:FIT5017 is an optional research/thesis unit for FIT coursework masters degrees, taken in the final stage of the Masters Professional or Masters course. While FIT5014 is a 24-point unit taken in a single semester, FIT5017 is a component of the 24-point Minor Thesis taken over more than one semester. Before enrolling in the unit, students need: 1) to have prior approval from their course coordinator; and 2) to have reached agreement with a potential supervisor about a research area/feasible research topic for their Minor Thesis project.
FIT4012-Advanced topics in computational science:FIT5018 is an optional research/ thesis unit for FIT coursework masters degrees, taken in the final stage of the Masters Professional or Masters course. While FIT5014 is a 24-point unit taken in a single semester, FIT5018 is a component of the 24-point Minor Thesis taken over more than one semester (generally with FIT5016). Before enrolling in the unit, students need: 1) to have prior approval from their course coordinator; and 2) to have reached agreement with a potential supervisor about a research area/feasible research topic for their Minor Thesis project.
FIT4013-Software engineering research project:Introduction to financial modelling using modern computer tools, including an introduction to Neural Networks. Computer modelling methodology, discounted cash flow analysis, risk measurement, shareholder value analysis, capital budgeting, project cash flow analysis, options pricing, technical analysis, short-term planning and financing, activity-based costing, accounts receivable and inventory, statement analysis and forecasting.
FIT4015-Digital communications technology and protocols:This unit covers requirements, research issues and current technology of multimedia computing and communications. Contents include: characteristics and requirements of different media types, quality of service issues, MM compression techniques and standards, MM operating system and end system architecture, MM networking and transport protocols, MM information indexing and retrieval, and example MM systems and applications in business.
FIT4016-Information security:The Internet is now an essential part of business communication and commerce activities. This unit focuses on technologies that enable business transactions over the Internet. Main topics include: Internet protocols and standards for electronic commerce. Security issues and technology. Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) and the Internet. Secure payment systems and standards. XML and Internet Commerce.
FIT4017-Network management:This unit will provide students with the motivation and the need for data mining, an understanding of the major components of the data mining process, the basic principles of various methods and operations for data mining, knowledge of key and emerging application areas, case studies to bridge the connection between hands-on experience and real-world applications, practical skills in solving data mining problems, and expose students to the current major research issues in this area.
FIT4019-Neural and evolutionary computing:Layered structure of networks, security threats in an open network environment, and basic security. Detailed exposition of major tools and protocols used in VPNs, including firewalls, IPSec, Internet Security Association and Key Management Protocol (ISAKMP), Internet Key Exchange (IKE), Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) and Point-to-Point Tunnelling Protocol (PPTP), Layer 2 Tunnelling Protocol (L2TP), Terminal Access Control Access Control System (TACACS), Secure Sockets Layer (SSL), and SOCKS. Exposition of principles and methodologies for the design and implementation of Intranets and Extranets using VPNs.
FIT4022-Computer models for business decisions:This unit focuses on the Service Oriented Computing paradigm and web services technology. Students will be exposed to the motivations that led to the emergence of web services from middleware and Enterprise Architecture Integration (EAI). The unit will introduce the fundamental concepts of Service Oriented Architectures (SOA), web services and the key standards that underpin web services: SOAP, WSDL and UDDI. The unit will evaluate and compare various service discovery protocols. The unit will provide students with skills to program and deploy web services as well as to access and consume/use web services.
FIT4024-Business statistics and applications:This unit focuses theoretical concepts, applications and research issues of mobile software agents. Students will learn techniques to design and develop mobile agent applications. A number of different toolkits/development environments will be discussed and used for the practical component of the unit. The unit analyses mobile software agents technology with respect to their use in different application domains - focusing on pervasive applications, electronic commerce/web services and distributed data/network management. Advanced research issues/topics such as communication, coordination, security and trust for mobile agent systems will also be presented.
FIT4026-Enterprise programming:This unit provides students with the knowledge, understanding and skills required to develop an application system which uses a web interface to a back-end database. The unit assumes a sound basic knowledge of programming and database concepts and skills as developed in the introductory units in these areas. The emphasis in the unit is on mastery of the key concepts and the basic knowledge and skills required to build this kind of application. The unit will provide students with an awareness of the wide range of technologies which are used to support this kind of application, but will examine only a limited number of these technologies to demonstrate the key concepts and their application. The unit will take a strongly practical focus in examining the technology issues involved, and highlight the key issues which a developer needs to address in developing applications of this kind for real-world systems.
FIT4028-Information and network security:Enterprise networks consists of several highly complex devices that interconnect in likewise complex configurations and modes of operation. While todays network technology has come a long way in terms of high-speed data transmission, secure management components, and software-driven administration, QoS targets have come to the fore as converged technologies have taken over both enterprise and home users of network technologies. This unit will provide students with fundamentals and theoretical foundations of Quality of Service and management aspects of modern network infrastructures. On the basis of industry best practices, research- and experience-driven standardisation, this unit will cover topics pertinent to delivering quality, security, manageability and other targets that are relevant in large-scale networks. Students will also acquire practical skills needed to plan, install, configure and manage networks through laboratory activities and projects.
FIT4033-Object oriented application programming in C++:Network security is an important part of any computer network and essential knowledge for IT professionals. This unit provides fundamental network security for IT students and professionals. It covers wired and wireless communication and network security, security at different layers, computer system security, network services and applications security, basic defence systems, cryptography for network security, techniques for identifying system vulnerabilities and penetration testing.
FIT4037-Case study:Cloud computing has recently emerged as an efficient and cost-effective means of using distributed systems to deliver content and applications as a service via the Internet. This unit will provide students with the necessary knowledge to design and develop enterprise-scale applications that leverage cloud computing on different platforms and incorporate web services for interacting with other systems. Students will explore the fundamental concepts of cloud computing, the advantages and limitations of the platform architecture, and review literature regarding current research on the topic to gain a greater insight into future developments of the platform.
FIT4038-Database management and implementation:This unit provides students with an understanding of the design and development of systems that support the large enterprise in a web-based environment. Students will learn of the theoretical issues that need to be considered by the enterprise and how they can affect the development of the enterprise application. A number of techniques will be introduced as the technological means to build such an application with specific emphasis on the Java EE technology.
FIT4039-Android and iOS development:This unit focuses on designing, developing and deploying distributed data management systems. The unit introduces various contemporary issues in managing large data in distributed environment such as data model, fragmentation, replication and concurrency control. The issues will be discussed using several contemporary approaches of distributed data management.
FIT4041-Web development:This unit aims to provide students with fundamental knowledge of network and information security. Topics to be covered include network components and services, network computer systems and security policy, security at different system layers, basic cryptography and information security, information security and communications, intrusion detection system, malicious code and detection and prevention systems, authentication systems, and wireless security.
FIT4042-Industry-based learning:Modern methods of discovering patterns in large-scale databases are introduced, including classification, clustering and association rules analysis. These are contrasted with more traditional methods of finding information from data, such as data queries. Data pre-processing methods for dealing with noisy and missing data and with dimensionality reduction are reviewed. Hands-on case studies in building data mining models are performed using a popular software package.
FIT4063-Human-computer interaction:This unit provides a high level coverage of mobile and distributed computing. It will focus on the underlying concepts and standards of mobile computing and current technologies for mobile and distributed systems. It will discuss cellular networks, wireless networks and their standards and technologies, context-aware computing, location-awareness, wireless sensor networks, internet mobility, web services and service-oriented technology, cloud computing and current research trends and case studies.
FIT4126-Honours thesis:This unit introduces the main problems and approaches to designing intelligent software systems including automated search methods, knowledge representation and reasoning, planning, reasoning under uncertainty, machine learning paradigms, and evolutionary algorithms.
FIT4146-Emergent technologies and interfaces:This unit focuses on a holistic approach to project management. It provides students with a high level of understanding of the processes of project management, as well as sound skills in the use of project tools. Proficiency in using key tools and concepts could give students a significant competitive advantage in the market place. The content deals with: concepts and definitions; organising and staffing the project office and team; planning, scheduling techniques; cost control; risk management; contracts and procurement; etc. Case studies, articles of interest that may appear in current media, and students' own work experiences with project management, will be discussed to optimise the learning opportunity in the unit.
FIT4165-Computer networks:This unit is designed for students who wish to extend their programming abilities in developing relatively large database applications. An integrated system of significant size will be developed using the current industry standard software. Topics covered include the principal aspects of database development and applications, advanced queries, customising forms and professional reporting, business graphics, importing and exporting data, internet applications, debugging and error-handling security and system documentation
FIT4186-Honours thesis:This unit extends students knowledge and skills to make use of current technologies in developing business applications on the internet platform. The unit provides an opportunity for students to explore net centric computing focusing on business applications development. The unit has been designed to equip future web application developers and managers of business solutions. Thus practical exercises will be illustrative with industrial strength and technology issues will be given equal coverage with technology details. The primary aim of the unit is to familiarise students with the currently popular web technologies so that their design and implementation decisions in the future will be informed and therefore produce successful systems with a high degree of probability. Topics coverage include data and messages using XML, architecture, scripting and programming in .NET platform
FIT4246-Honours thesis:Transmission media impose various and often unique constraints on the design of networks and their achievable performance. This unit will cover key performance concepts in copper cables, optical fibre cabled and wireless transmission media. This includes atmospheric propagation impact on QoS, satellite and wireless systems, Wifi, WiMax network propagation issues and planning concepts, and satellite and terrestrial service planning concepts. The infrastructure requirements, reliability and maintainability of networks with specific transmission media will be covered, including the application of GIS, Internet of Things (IoT) and wireless sensor networks in design and planning for terrestrial, mobile and cellular systems.
FIT4441-Honours thesis part 1:This unit present a coherent understanding of informational practices within organisations. It explores the structural and functional aspects that constitute organisational informatics and how these aspects combine to support diverse activities undertaken by organisations. The emphasis is to explore how information, and the ability to exploit it, contributes to corporate memory, enterprise knowledge and innovation in products, services and processes. Particular attention is given to diverse organisational setting to address private and public enterprises as well as third sector organisations.
FIT4442-Honours thesis part 2:This unit relates to the fundamental role of recordkeeping professionals in society - to provide access to recorded information in the form of essential evidence of social and organisational activity for business, commercial, governmental, social, and cultural purposes. It covers the role of recordkeeping in society and organisations, functional requirements for evidence, the formulation of recordkeeping policy, strategies and tactics, the establishment of recordkeeping regimes, business functional analysis, appraisal and disposal, the development of metadata schemas and their implementation in recordkeeping systems.
FIT4443-Honours thesis part 3:This unit provides students with the skills and knowledge relating to the use of latest technologies for managing knowledge, electronic documents and records to meet the needs of individuals, work groups and organisations. The unit aims to build a general understanding of technologies for managing personal and organisational structured and unstructured information and knowledge and the methods of developing systems to handle it. Students study the business context, requirements analysis techniques and implementation issues for electronic document management, recordkeeping, content and other information and knowledge management systems.
FIT4444-Honours thesis final:This unit provides students with a critical understanding of the impact of information technology (IT) within contemporary social relations. Using case studies drawn from different social spheres, the unit explores the ways in which the diffusion of IT has reshaped thinking and practice concerning social collaboration, the production of knowledge and community building. Particular attention is paid to the emerging field of community informatics, and the implications that this field holds for the work of information and knowledge management professionals
FIT4448-Honours thesis final:This unit provides an introduction to e-business and how e-business relates to broader enterprise issues. The unit explores e-business from a management as well as technology perspective covering, the major issues facing business and managers in effectively managing e-business in contemporary organisations. It examines the evolving nature of e-business, its impacts on organisations, and how managers can effectively harness the potential of e-business investments to achieve organisational goals. The unit also involves study of the main theoretical and practical issues of e-business, e-business solutions in various environments, emerging patterns and their potential impacts on e-business.
FIT4606-Honours thesis:This unit is intended to provide students with a framework for understanding business intelligence reporting systems with particular focus on the evolutionary process of developing an OLAP-based business intelligence system.
FIT5000-Minor thesis extension:This unit provides students with an understanding of the development and use of information systems that support managers, especially their decision-making tasks. Students will learn of the nature of management work and decision theory and how this affects the development of decision support systems. A number of commonly used decision support methods and techniques will be explored. Students will be introduced to personal decision support systems, group support systems, negotiation support systems, data warehousing, executive information systems and business intelligence.
FIT5003-Software security:Managerial decision-makers often require information held in various organisational information systems to make improved strategic decisions. A data warehouse is designed to provide high quality data from a number of sources both inside and outside the organisation and is an example of a large-scale decision system. This unit presents students with coverage of several important aspects of data warehousing. These include the purpose of a data warehouse, data warehouse design, data warehouse architecture, data sourcing, implementing the data warehouse, organisational issues involved with designing and implementing a data warehouse, data warehouse governance and case studies.
FIT5008-Digital communications project:This unit introduces students to the principles, techniques and applications of computer-based decision support models for business and industry. Topics include: decision trees; linear programming and optimisation; other mathematical programming methods; waiting lines and queues; time series analysis and forecasting; inventory modelling and discrete-event simulation. Models will be built and solved using spreadsheets or other computer applications as appropriate.
FIT5010-Network protocols standards:In their final stage of study, students are given the opportunity to apply the knowledge and skills they have gained, in the development of an information system for a real world client. Students work in groups and will: + design, develop and deliver an information system for a client; + manage the project through all its development stages; + communicate effectively with all project stakeholders, primarily via studios and meetings; + develop project documentation to a professional standard; + present their project work to academics and other groups; + attend unit seminars; and + contribute in a professional and committed manner to the work of the group.
FIT5011-Network design and performance:The unit provides students with an overview of enterprise systems and is designed to describe the role of enterprise systems as part of the larger IT infrastructure within large scale organisations. A case study approach will be adopted which will focus on inherent issues surrounding management and deployment of enterprise systems, together with implementation issues influencing the impact of these systems on the organisation. SAP ECC6 will be the software of choice to introduce students to the complexity of enterprise resource planning systems through tutorial workshops.
FIT5012-Data compression techniques:This unit develops understanding of information technology and information and knowledge management governance frameworks and strategy perspectives, with particular emphasis on the regulatory environment, legislative and organisational controls, audits, standards, professional certifications, and issues associated with measuring performance, demonstrating value and minimising risk. The unit builds on intellectual capital theory, augmented by insights from social capital and emotional capital. It draws on case studies to differentiate strategies focused primarily on people, business processes, and content, and considers the supporting technologies that can facilitate each approach.
FIT5014-Minor thesis:This unit provides a practical and theoretical understanding to what it means to be an information professional today. Students will encounter a range of issues relevant to professional practice in the workplace, including ethical and legal challenges caused by technology use. Through a fieldwork placement, students gain in-depth understanding of information agencies and the organisational environment in which they operate. Students will research established theories and concepts and critically evaluate their practical use (taking into account many international aspects) in organisations today, as well as reviewing and understanding the wider responsibilities that IT professionals are called upon to uphold in society. Topics addressed include - organisational and professional communication; teamwork; the nature of the information professions; the role of professional associations; problem solving and information use; cross-cultural awareness; personal and professional ethics and codes of practice. The unit addresses issues in information management and information systems currently identified by practitioners, managers, researchers, organisations, and academics as being of professional concern.
FIT5017-Minor thesis:This unit introduces students to the major categories of information resources in all media and how they are accessed through a variety of common user interfaces from anywhere in the world. The process of satisfying these needs through the reference interview and the application of skilled search strategies is explored. The ways that information resources are procured by libraries and e-repositories through purchase or licensing, and supplied to users on a cost-effective, efficient basis are examined. Access and authentication, intellectual property law and professional duty of care are described.
FIT5018-Minor thesis:This unit develops understanding of the fundamental principles, concepts and standards that guide the development of information organisation and retrieval systems and web-based information architectures. It deals with standards governing description, distribution and access to information locally and globally cataloguing, indexing, thesaurus construction, classification and metadata for knowledge discovery. It examines the effects of economic, social and technological factors on the development of bibliographic networks and cataloguing operations. Practical sessions deal with the use of major bibliographic tools, schemes and systems for information organisation.
FIT5019-Financial modelling:This unit relates to managing the creation, storage, recall and dissemination of business records within organisation-wide frameworks. Topics cover: socio-legal and business requirements for evidence; knowledge bases for representing functions and activities; managing access; designing and implementing recordkeeping policies, strategies and systems in accordance with industry and professional standards, including the International Standard for Records Management, and using recordkeeping business analysis tools (workflow, risk management, identification of vital records, functional analysis).
FIT5020-Multimedia computing and communications:This unit enables students to read widely in a relevant topic within the fields of information technology, information systems or information management, under supervision. It may cover an area not offered in any other fifth-year level unit, or involve building greater in-depth knowledge in an area with which they already have some familiarity. Details for the reading unit will be defined and approved individually for each student and will include objectives, assessment details, due dates and an initial reading list. Assessment comprises a research paper or review (6000-10,000 words), project report, or equivalent. Enrolment into Reading Units and allocation of a supervising academic will be approved by the Associate Dean (Education).
FIT5021-Internet commerce:This unit enables students to pursue a particular topic of research in the fields of information technology, information systems or information management. The research is done under supervision, and provides a chance for a student to pursue a topic of interest that has not been covered in other coursework units, or to build more in-depth knowledge in an area with which they already have some familiarity but desire more knowledge and expertise. Students enrolling in this unit should have the approval of the Head of School or their nominee. Assessment comprises a research paper, project report, or equivalent.
FIT5024-Applications of data mining:This unit will place information system security at the forefront of IT Security Governance. Students will develop an holistic approach to security within the larger context of the organisation. This approach will be developed by using a Security Governance framework which will adopt Risk management as the strategy of choice. Students will identify the major security impacts on the organisation. Security policies will include links to Sarbanes Oxley Act and Australian security standards such as ISO17799. Security audits provide an iterative process to the framework. Future security issues and trends will contribute to the students overall understanding of security governance.
FIT5027-Virtual private network:This unit is designed to provide students with an understanding of a range of tools and techniques for systems development and knowledge of a number of specific systems development methodologies. The main topics include the tools and techniques for systems development, the evaluation of the tools and techniques, evolution of development methodologies, the organisational context in which systems development takes place and a number of systems development approaches. These include participative development, soft systems approaches, object-oriented development, structured systems development approaches, data and information-oriented approaches and rapid application development.
FIT5030-Web services and service oriented computing:This industry experience studio project capstone unit gives students the opportunity to work in teams to research contemporary approaches to developing a defined project, develop new skills and apply the knowledge and skills they have already gained in a practical setting. Teams will research and create a meaningful and beneficial problem space or design question and then carry out research or design in a systematic manner to develop and deliver a solution to industry standards, for use by organisations and/or community groups. Teams will be self managed and may be a mix of students drawn from all Masters courses in the faculty, depending on the specialist field. Throughout this process students will need to communicate findings, knowledge and ideas effectively and professionally to a range of stakeholders, with a range of IT knowledge, in relevant and innovative ways. The stakeholders will include academics, peers, project-based stakeholders and senior industry experts. The students will attend unit seminars, carry out research individually and contribute in a professional, committed and collegial manner to the work of their team and studio peers.
FIT5031-Mobile software agents:This unit provides a practical and theoretical understanding to what it means to be an IT professional today. Students will encounter a range of issues relevant to professional practice in the workplace, including ethical and legal challenges caused by technology use. Students will research established theories and concepts and critically evaluate their practical use (taking into account many international aspects) in organisations today, as well as reviewing and understanding the wider responsibilities that IT professionals are called upon to uphold in society. Topics addressed include - organisational and professional communication; teamwork; the nature of the IT professions; the role of professional associations; problem solving and information use; cross-cultural awareness; personal and professional ethics and codes of practice. It is highly recommended that students enrol in FIT5122 in conjunction with FIT5120 where possible. Students therefore should take FIT5120 in the last semester of their course.
FIT5032-Internet applications development:This unit aims to provide students with an advanced knowledge of IT security. Topics include design and implementation of advanced cryptosystems for high-performance applications such as low power mobile devices, cryptographic protocols for secure online computation applications such as e-voting. We will cover advanced hacking techniques, complete computer system penetration testing and defences. Further topics include advanced wireless network security, enterprise security architectures, malicious code detection and prevention systems, defence systems in depth, advanced software security, virtual system and cloud computing security, and emerging technologies such as quantum computing and cryptography. Students will do practical exercises and tasks throughout the unit.
FIT5034-Quality of service and network management:The aim of this unit is to prepare Masters students in the Faculty of Information Technology to conduct research across the range of IT disciplines, including computer science, software engineering, information systems and information management. It introduces students to major research philosophies and paradigms, the principles of research design, research ethics, research methods and techniques of data collection and analysis appropriate to IT research and their disciplines, and IT research in research and industry settings. Skills developed and knowledge acquired from this unit will prepare students to conduct and communicate their own research, as well as to be knowledgeable and critical interpreters of others' research.
FIT5037-Network security:This unit is a research unit common to FIT Masters degrees. Due to the nature of IT, a wide range of Masters project types can be offered to students. Some project components are of a practical nature and may involve software development and/or experimentation, while other components are of a more theoretical nature.
FIT5041-Component technology for internet applications:This unit is a research unit common to FIT Masters degrees. Due to the nature of IT, a wide range of Masters project types can be offered to students. Some project components are of a practical nature and may involve software development and/or experimentation, while other components are of a more theoretical nature.
FIT5042-Enterprise application development for the web:This unit is a research unit common to FIT Masters degrees. Due to the nature of IT, a wide range of Masters project types can be offered to students. Some project components are of a practical nature and may involve software development and/or experimentation, while other components are of a more theoretical nature.
FIT5043-Distributed and big data processing:Enterprise networks are highly complex infrastructures that demand correct management practices in planning, operations and security. Significant challenges arise from the scale of operations required as well as the increasingly common incidents of intrusion, sabotage, espionage or data theft, and vandalism. The unit will provide students with practical foundations in planning secure networks, policy-based operations and the implementation of security. Students will also be introduced to best practices in dealing with security breaches. Practical skills will be acquired through lab activities and case studies (projects).
FIT5044-Network security:Covers the core skills for enterprise architects, addressing the structuring and delivery of IT services in organisations. Addresses topics including SaaS, Cloud computing, enterprise 2.0 and other collaborative technologies, services science management and engineering and services strategy.
FIT5045-Knowledge discovery and data mining:This unit provides an introduction to the discipline of software engineering at the postgraduate level. The emphasis is upon a broad coverage of various aspects of software engineering. We assume the students will at this stage have adequate programming skills and are able to put theories to practice. The notion of a software system as a model or approximation of a desired system is introduced, and used as a way of describing such things as the software life cycle and its various models, programming by contract, design and testing issues, maintenance, reuse, complexity, divide and conquer strategies, metrics and measurement, project management and software legacy.
FIT5046-Mobile and distributed computing systems:This unit looks at the design and implementation issues of database management systems. Advanced database design using multi-dimensional database design and semi-structured database design are explored. Online analytical query language will be explored in the context of multi-dimensional database design. Query optimisation and tuning will be explored, as well as semi-structure database design and query processing.
FIT5047-Intelligent systems:This unit covers the core software engineering disciplines concerned with formally modelling software systems using logics and verifying the correctness of such specifications using mechanical/automated proof tools. Topics include mathematical logic, formal specification languages, theorem proving and model checking. It shows how to analyse model complex software systems, how to express properties that the system should adhere to and how to use mechanical/automated proof tools to formally verify such properties.
FIT5057-Project management:Modern computer systems contain parallelism in both hardware and software. This unit covers parallelism in both general purpose and application specific computer architectures and the programming paradigms that allow parallelism to be exploited in software. This unit examines both shared memory and message passing paradigms in both hardware and software; concurrency, multithreading and synchronicity; parallel, clustered and distributed supercomputing models and languages. Students will program in these paradigms. This unit draws on units in distributed databases and grid computing. It will also cover the technology and application of cloud computing with particular reference to programming frameworks (e.g. MapReduce, Hadoop etc).
FIT5059-Advanced programming for database applications:This unit focuses theoretical concepts, applications and research issues of mobile software. Students will learn techniques to design and develop mobile applications. A number of different toolkits/development environments will be discussed and used for the practical component of the unit. Interaction between mobile applications and other systems such as sensor networks or web systems will also be explored.
FIT5077-e-Business application and development:Computers and information technology pervade all aspects of modern society and industry. This unit is designed to familiarise students with several key ways in which IT technologies are increasingly being used. Currently tools based on data analytics, modelling, optimisation and visualisation are growing in relevance and application. This unit consists of a number of seminars, the content of which will cover key applications models and domains of the above techniques. The assessment component of this course is coursework only and in a series of assignments students will be required to undertake analytical research on recent developments in key application areas. Furthermore they will have the opportunities to develop skills in data management, data analytics and visualisation using state of the art tools such as R and Tableau.
FIT5083-Network infrastructure:Advanced methods of discovering patterns in large-scale multi-dimensional databases are discussed. Solving classification, clustering, association rules analysis and regression problems on different kinds of data are covered. Data pre-processing methods for dealing with noisy and missing data in the context of Big Data are reviewed. Evaluation and analysis of data mining models are emphasised. Hands-on case studies in building data mining models are performed using popular modern software packages.
FIT5086-Organisational informatics:The aim of this unit is to prepare Master of Philosophy students in the Faculty of IT to conduct research across the range of IT disciplines, including computer science, software engineering, information systems and information management. It also provides PhD students with a foundation for their studies in FIT6021 Advanced IT research methods if they have not taken an equivalent unit in their previous studies. It introduces students to major research philosophies and paradigms, the principles of research design, research ethics, research methods and techniques of data collection and analysis appropriate to IT research and their disciplines, and IT research in research and industry settings. Skills developed and knowledge acquired from this unit will prepare students to conduct and communicate their own research, as well as to be knowledgeable and critical interpreters of others' research.
FIT5087-Archival systems:This unit is an elective designed for PhD and Master of Philosophy students. It focuses on the development of strategies and skills to complement and support PhD and Masters research studies, and prepare students for a career in research. PhD students are expected to complete FIT5144 before their Mid-Candidature/Progress Review.
FIT5088-Information and knowledge management systems:This unit looks at processes, case studies and simple tools to understand the many facets of working with data, and the significant effort in Data Science over and above the core task of Data Analysis. Working with data as part of a business model and the lifecycle in an organisation is considered, as well as business processes and case studies. Data and its handling is also introduced: characteristic kinds of data and its collection, data storage and basic kinds of data preparation, data cleaning and data stream processing. Styles of data analysis and outcomes of successful data exploration and analysis are reviewed. Standards, tools and resources are also reviewed. Basic curation and management are reviewed: archival and architectural practice, policy, legal and ethical issues.
FIT5090-Social informatics:This unit provides students with an understanding of the tasks and the main issues associated with the management of data in modern organisations and communities for business and societal purposes. The unit will examine some of the key issues that affect the data management function, incorporating recordkeeping, information accessibility, knowledge management and the governance and accountability for the data repositories. This will be used as a basis for explaining the nature of specialist work in this field and associated professional roles and responsibilities. Topics cover digital repository infrastructures, digital continuity planning; data archiving; data migration; the development of systems to support data discovery and reuse; mediated access to digital information; negotiation of data rights (ownership, copyright, access, privacy etc); utilisation of cloud computing platforms, and the data curation continuum.
FIT5092-Electronic business:This unit introduces statistical and visualisation techniques for the exploratory analysis of data. It will cover the role of data visualisation in data science and its limitations. Visualisation of qualitative, quantitative, temporal and spatial data will be presented. What makes an effective data visualisation, interactive data visualisation, and creating data visualisations with R and other tools will also be presented.
FIT5093-Business intelligence applications:Data engineering is about developing the software (and hardware) infrastructure to support data science. This unit introduces software tools and techniques for data engineering, but not hardware. It will cover: + traditional methods of data processing such as RDBMS, SQL for structured data; + introduction to distributed databases; + structured vs. unstructured data; + introduction to big data and its handling and processing; + introduction to NoSQL and Hadoop stack of technologies.
FIT5094-IT for management decision making:This unit aims to provide students with the necessary analytical and data modelling skills for the roles of a data scientist or business analyst. Students will be introduced to established and contemporary Machine Learning techniques for data analysis and presentation using widely available analysis software. They will look at a number of characteristic problems/data sets and analyse them with appropriate machine learning and statistical algorithms implemented in software including R, Python and RapidMiner. Those algorithms include regression, classification, clustering and so on, and the focus is on understanding the problems, models, and use of software, but not in the underlying theory. They will need to interpret the results and the suitability of the algorithms.
FIT5095-Data warehousing:FIT5151 will aim at capitalising on what students have learned in FIT9017 Foundations of programming (or equivalent). The unit covers more in-depth material to enable students to build business applications that follow good Software Engineering principles of maintainability, reusability and expandability. The emphasis will be on helping students acquire solid object-oriented programming knowledge and skills for building business applications. Popular object-oriented design patterns will be introduced whenever appropriate to illustrate effective design process in building larger systems.
FIT5097-Business intelligence modelling:This unit provides detailed understanding of user interaction design theories, principles and practices and usability for web based systems and small screen devices. The unit examines issues in interaction design and usability from various perspectives, in particular the user experience. The unit includes how to achieve more effective design during systems development, tools and techniques for understanding users better and the application of these to designing web and small screen device systems. It explores contemporary issues including the challenges faced by designers with emerging technologies.
FIT5098-Industry based project:Services science draws from the social sciences, business, and engineering technology and applies scientific methods to the design and management of services. The use of IT is a crucial and essential part of services science and an understanding this area is of major importance to IT students. In the current business environment IT techniques and skills have become essential to successfully manage operations, services and projects. The focus of this unit is to provide students with sufficient knowledge of modern services science and business operations, concepts, and modern software, to work effectively in service operations roles in industry and government.
FIT5101-Enterprise systems:This unit provides an understanding of the business value of customer relationship management and how data mining technology can be used to improve organisational interaction with customers. Building a business around the customer relationship is the aspiration of many modern organisations. Customer relationship management and data mining has been combined together to provide the required concepts, techniques, technology and tools to achieve this goal. The unit discuss how IT and IT based techniques can be used for customer segmentation, clustering and classification, market basket analysis and association rule mining in addition to traditional CRM.
FIT5102-IT strategy and governance:This unit provides students with an understanding of the development and use of IT tools and techniques for modelling and decision support in the field of finance. The unit is designed to give students a broad understanding of the financial subsystems confronting business enterprises. The main focus, besides the traditional modelling of finance decision making process using spreadsheet tools, will be IT tools and related techniques that can aid in the analysis and interpretation of real financial problems confronting an enterprise. This unit will look at business related financial issues in the context of specific case studies.
FIT5104-Information and knowledge management professional practice:Business processes must be designed to ensure that they are effective and meet customer requirements. A well-designed process will improve efficiency and deliver greater productivity. This unit will introduce students to analytical tools that can be used to model, analyse, understand and design business processes. Students will also gain hands-on experience in using simulation software as a tool for analysing business processes.
FIT5105-Information access and use:The unit aims to provide the students with in depth knowledge of techniques required to deal with security problems in information systems. The main areas of study include symmetric and asymmetric encryption techniques, cryptographic hash functions with related topics of message authentication codes and digital signatures. Study of techniques and algorithms for providing mutual trust include key management and distribution and user authentication to establish trust in the identity of communicating partner are also included. It looks at various management issues, including use and abuse of encryption, distributed systems authentication and integrity management. A range of security applications are used as examples. Students will learn how to apply cryptographic techniques in practice.
FIT5106-Information organisation:E-Research provides means to harnessing contemporary ICT capabilities for solving challenging problems in science, medicine, and engineering. Computer grids play an pivotal role in E-Research; providing a seamless (web-like) access to a variety of networked resources, e.g. large data stores and information repositories, expensive instruments, high-speed links, sensors networks, and multimedia services for a wide range of applications. Topics covered include: Computational and Service-Oriented Grids, Grid-enabled Applications,. Gridservices, OGSA, Webservices, WSDL, Clustered Computing, GridMPI, Instruments and Sensors, Parametric Computing, P2P, and Data Grids.
FIT5107-Managing business records:This unit presents students with the theory and practice underlying computerised information retrieval. Topics covered include: history and context of information retrieval systems, retrieval models, Boolean, vector space and probabilistic, evaluation strategies, test collections, web search engines, indexing, content-based multimedia retrieval and relevance feedback.
FIT5108-Reading unit:This unit looks at the development and application of biologically inspired models of computation. We study: basic components of a natural neural systems: synapses, dendrites and neurons and their computational models; fundamental concepts of data and signal encoding and processing; neural network architectures: pattern association networks, auto associative networks, feedforward networks, competitive networks, self organizing networks and recurrent networks; plasticity and learning. Hebb rule, supervised learning, reinforced learning, error-correcting learning, unsupervised learning, competitive learning, self-organization.
FIT5109-Research topic:This unit investigates the management of semi-structured data. The unit explores the modelling of semi-structured data in XML using XML Schema and the transformation of such data using XSLT. It looks at methods for storing, querying and updating semi-structured data in both native-XML and object-relational database management systems and the design issues involved.
FIT5110-Information system security:This unit provides an understanding of current methods of automated probabilistic reasoning in graphical models and their application in building expert systems. Techniques for data mining graphical models will also be surveyed. A theoretical background in deterministic and stochastic probability propagation in Bayesian networks is joined with a case study of application development in a domain such as ecological risk assessment or meteorological modelling.
FIT5111-Information systems development practices:This unit focuses on the design and programming techniques essential for developing distributed software systems and applications - with Java as the teaching language. The unit presents concurrent programming primitives and concepts for distributed systems. The unit also focuses on application of concurrent techniques in distributed system designs. Programming and implementation issues and techniques of distributed applications are studied. Enabling techniques for building distributed systems are analysed and evaluated. Distributed Software Patterns are presented. The unit also includes case studies of distributed programming paradigms and their applications (e.g. JINI, JavaSpaces).
FIT5120-Industry experience studio project:This unit covers the core software engineering disciplines concerned with managing and delivering quality software. Topics include processes, tools and techniques for system validation and verification, including major commercial tools used in industry. It shows how to detect, analyse and control defects in complex software systems. Inspection and testing methodologies, analysis of artefacts, robustness, quality assurance, and advanced software validation and verification methods are covered.
FIT5122-Professional practice:This unit provides students with a thorough grounding in the theory and application of computer forensic techniques. Topics covered will include: the role of computer forensics in computer crime detection and prosecution, legislative frameworks, phases of a computer forensic investigation, techniques involved in data recovery from volatile and non-volatile storage media, intrusion detection, computer forensic tools.
FIT5124-Advanced topics in security:The first component of this unit looks at digital communication technologies such as: local area networks; metropolitan area networks; satellite networks; ISDN; modem techniques; digital networks. The second component covers protocols including: the structure, coordination and management of the Internet; Internet standards development process; Internet link layer protocols; IP (V4 and V6) and ICMP protocols; TCP and UDP; the Internet addressing structure, including domain naming and the DNS/LDAP systems and protocols; bridging systems and spanning-tree protocols; Internet packet routing techniques and protocols; mobile IP; Real Time Protocols; the major common applications.
FIT5125-IT research methods:Modern computer systems contain parallelism in both hardware and software. This unit covers parallelism in both general purpose and application specific computer architectures and the programming paradigms that allow parallelism to be exploited in software. This unit examines both shared memory and message passing paradigms in both hardware and software; concurrency, multithreading and synchronicity; parallel, clustered and distributed supercomputing models and languages. Students will program in these paradigms.
FIT5126-Masters thesis part 1:This unit focuses on four of the important knowledge areas established from the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK): scope management, time management, cost management and quality management. The unit demonstrates the technical aspects of the knowledge areas otherwise known as the triple constraints - and places the emphasis on the planning and execution of projects. The unit will demonstrate how the triangulation of these knowledge areas supports a successful project. The unit will conclude with a discussion on governance compliance and decision making techniques to provide traceable project transparency and accountability.
FIT5127-Masters thesis part 2:This unit, together with FIT5057 Project management, and FIT5178 Applied project management, gives a full coverage of the main areas of Project Management. These units will give students the knowledge and skills needed to work in project planning, project control, or as an entry level project manager in industry. The emphasis in FIT5180 is on the business and legal aspects of planning and executing projects. Project management is a common pathway to higher management in industry. These topics are especially important to students who intend to work as project managers and take part in the sales, contract administration, and strategic planning of an organisation.
FIT5128-Masters thesis final:This unit will develop students capabilities to undertake research in the information systems field. Students will learn various research methods and study published research papers in which these research methods have been used. Students will learn to evaluate how well the research methods have been used in published research papers. Students will also develop an understanding of some of the exciting, leading-edge research in the information systems field. This understanding may enable students to identify research topics that they would like to pursue, perhaps in an honours, masters, or PhD thesis.
FIT5129-Enterprise IT security - planning, operations and management:This unit adds to previous study in the key business intelligence/decision support systems graduate units and provides an avenue for high-performing students to experience research as an intern working with DSS researchers on a major project. Each intern will have a negotiated work and assessment schedule. Admission to the internship requires excellence in the prerequisite units and a satisfactory interview with the relevant project researchers.
FIT5133-Enterprise architecture and management:This unit provides a high level coverage of mobile and distributed computing. It will focus on the underlying concepts and standards of mobile computing and current technologies for mobile and distributed systems. It will discuss cellular networks, wireless networks and their standards and technologies, context-aware computing, location-awareness, wireless sensor networks, internet mobility, web services and service-oriented technology, cloud computing and current research trends and case studies.
FIT5136-Software engineering:This unit introduces main techniques widely used in intelligent software systems to students in the Master of Information Technology Systems course with the Network Computing major. Specifically, it focuses on the techniques in relation to network structures. Main topics covered include neural network models, supervised learning and classification, unsupervised learning and clustering, fuzzy logic, intelligent decision analysis, optimum network flow modelling, and recommender systems.
FIT5137-Database analysis and processing:This unit will review the basic concepts of networking technologies and analyse technological aspects of the wireless network. Main topics will include: antenna and propagation for wireless systems, fundamentals of physical layers used in wireless networks, wireless local area networks (WLAN/WiFi), WiMax systems, mobile network technologies (3G and LTE), mesh networks. Unit will also cover advanced topics in wireless networking.
FIT5138-Advanced software engineering:This unit introduces students to IT research. Specifically, it introduces major research methods that are used by IT researchers including experiments, surveys, case studies, and design science. It also addresses the collection and analysis of quantitative and qualitative data. Students will learn how to effectively communicate research. Skills developed and knowledge acquired from this unit will prepare students to conduct their own research, as well as to be knowledgeable consumers of others' research.
FIT5139-Advanced distributed and parallel systems:Module 1: In-depth coverage of the protocols used to operate the Internet and intranets, and a selection of major applications, including specific implementations of the protocols and systems. The topics include: Advanced Internet Addressing: IPv6, subnetting, supernetting. TCP Performance and Enhancements: Reno, New-Reno, Fast Retransmit and Recovery, etc. Unicast and multicast routing protocols: BGP4, OSPF, MOSPF, DVMRP, etc. Messaging systems: SMTP, MIME, POP3, IMAP, World Wide Web systems: client-server implementations, HTTP, Real Time Protocols: RTP, RTCP,RSVP. Security and Firewall. Quality of Service issues: DiffServ and IntServ. Network management and Remote File activities. Module 2: This unit aims to provide students with fundamental knowledge of network and information security. Topics to be covered include network components and services, network computer systems and security policy, security at different system layers, basic cryptography and information security, information security and communications, intrusion detection system, malicious code and detection and prevention systems, authentication systems, and wireless security.
FIT5140-Advanced mobile systems:This unit is composed of two modules. The first module provides students with an understanding of the design and development of systems that support the large enterprise in a web-based environment. Students will learn of the theoretical issues that need to be considered by the enterprise and how they can affect the development of the enterprise application. A number of techniques will be introduced as the technological means to build such an application with specific emphasis on the Java EE technology. The second module of this unit provides students with the knowledge, understanding and skills required to develop an application system, which uses a web interface to a back-end database. The unit assumes a sound basic knowledge of programming and database concepts and skills as developed in the introductory units in these areas. The emphasis in the unit is on mastery of the key concepts and the basic knowledge and skills required to build this kind of application. The unit will provide students with an awareness of the wide range of technologies which are used to support this kind of application, but will examine only a limited number of these technologies to demonstrate the key concepts and their application. This unit will take a strongly practical focus in examining the technology issues involved, and highlight the key issues which a developer needs to address in developing applications of the kind for real-world systems.
FIT5141-Advanced topics in information technology:This unit together with FIT5057 provides a holistic approach to project management. The emphasis of this unit is on theoretical foundation of project management in global environment, and adequate level of understanding of skills necessary for people to be involved in and managing projects globally. The practical exercises and relevant case studies will familiarize students with as many of current issues/problems/solutions as possible, and thus increase their ability to recognize the potential pitfalls in managing projects globally and provide appropriate solutions for them.
FIT5142-Advanced data mining:This unit is intended to provide students with a framework for understanding business intelligence systems as well as the provision of high quality, integrated data for decision support through data warehousing. The unit has a particular focus on the evolutionary process of developing a business intelligence system and multi-dimensional modelling for structuring business intelligence data. The unit also presents students with coverage of several important aspects of business intelligence and data warehousing, including architecture, design, implementation, data sourcing, organisational issues and governance. The unit will present this material using relevant research, case studies and practical exercises. Students will develop a prototype business intelligence system using a business intelligence software package.
FIT5143-IT research methods:This unit introduces tools and techniques for data wrangling. It will cover the problems that prevent raw data from being effectively used in analysis and the data cleansing and pre-processing tasks that prepare it for analytics. These include, for example, the handling of bad and missing data, data integration and initial feature selection. It will also introduce text mining and web analytics. Python and the Pandas environment will be used for implementation.
FIT5144-Research strategies and skills:This unit explores the statistical modelling foundations that underlie the analytic aspects of Data Science. Motivated by case studies and working through examples, this unit covers the mathematical and statistical basis with an emphasis on using the techniques in practice. It introduces data collection, sampling and quality. It considers analytic tasks such as statistical hypothesis testing and exploratory versus confirmatory analysis. It presents basic probability distributions, random number generation and simulation as well as estimation methods and effects such as maximum likelihood estimators, Monte Carlo estimators, Bayes theorem, bias versus variance and cross validation. Basic information theory and dependence models such as regression and log-linear models are also presented, as well as the role of general modelling such as inference and decision making, and predictive models.
FIT5145-Introduction to data science:This unit enables students to pursue a particular topic of research in the fields of information technology, information systems or information management. The research is done under supervision, and provides a chance for a student to pursue a topic of interest that has not been covered in other coursework units, or to build more in-depth knowledge in an area with which they already have some familiarity but desire more knowledge and expertise. Students taking the Industry Experience stream in their Masters courses should take this unit. Assessment comprises a research paper, project report, or equivalent.
FIT5146-Data curation and management:This unit introduces machine learning and the major kinds of statistical learning models and algorithms used in data analysis. Learning and the different kinds of learning will be covered and their usage will be discussed. The unit presents foundational concepts in machine learning and statistical learning theory, e.g. bias-variance, model selection, and how model complexity interplays with model's performance on unobserved data. A series of different models and algorithms will be presented and interpreted based on the foundational concepts: linear models for regression and classification (e.g. linear basis function models, logistic regression, Bayesian classifiers, generalised linear models), discriminative and generative models, k-means and latent variable models (e.g. Gaussian mixture model), expectation-maximisation, neural networks and deep learning, and principles in scaling typical supervised and unsupervised learning algorithms to big data using distributed computing.
FIT5147-Data exploration and visualisation:This unit teaches about working with different kinds of data, documents, graphs, spatial data. Distributed processing is introduced using Hadoop and Spark technologies, including streaming, graph processing and using NoSQL. Programming assignments are generally done in Spark, Linux, and similar shell-like environments.
FIT5148-Distributed databases and big data:This unit introduces students to the field of Community Informatics and provides them with the theoretical and practical foundations required to understand, assess and implement digital and information technologies, IKM, recordkeeping and archival systems, and social media in community settings. Students will learn how to assist communities to develop information and IT policy and strategy frameworks, to build community IT and IKM capacity, and to engage with processes that determine policy development and service delivery. The unit will focus on how community informatics expertise can support communities to achieve better and more sustainable health, education and environmental outcomes, make more effective use of community and government services, and overcome physical, mental, cultural, or social disadvantage. Topics include: theoretical frameworks; community knowledge production and sharing; information access; and the use of information technologies and IKM systems in community settings; community archiving; participatory methods and working with communities; underlying values of projects, ethical approaches and ethical dilemmas; and project design and development.
FIT5149-Applied data analysis:Informatics, the science of information, plays an increasingly central role in the work museums, libraries and other cultural heritage institutions that act to preserve, study, and promote cultural heritage. Heritage informatics for the digital humanities brings a comprehensive, cross-disciplinary approach to the challenge of managing cultural information, from data capture to analysis and dissemination. This course is designed to respond to emerging technologies that have transformed the ways cultural heritage data can be interpreted, managed and analysed. Students will learn about perceptions of heritage and the principles and best practices of the discipline. Then, through a study of key technological innovations (mobile data, digital mapping and storytelling, 3D and augmented reality) and case studies, students will gain insight into how to build applications and digital user experiences for a variety of cultural heritage contexts.
FIT5151-Object-oriented business application development:In the digital world, how we communicate, conduct business and socialize is revolutionising our way of life. The explosion of data and discovery are transforming the way we live and work, altering relationships between government and citizens, businesses and consumers, the researchers and the researched, the public and private sectors, the individual and society. This unit explores how big data analytics can potentially help grow the economy, improve health and education, support national security, protect the environment, enable more energy efficiency, drive innovation and progress, and support more resilient, sustainable communities and cultures. It also addresses the risks associated with the application of big data analytics in government and big business to support greater surveillance of citizen by state and consumers by business, disempower individuals and vulnerable communities, support discrimination, threaten social inclusion, social justice, human and civil rights, self-determination and privacy, and widen the divide between the data haves and have-nots. The unit will cover: introduction to social, cultural and heritage informatics; building digital media/data ecosystems and using data technologies to achieve the benefits and mitigate the risks of big data; developing socio-legal and policy frameworks to ensure transparency, good governance, accountability and ethical practice; big data rights regimes - rights in data, rights to self determination, privacy rights, access rights, discovery rights, IP and copyright; use of big data to support resilient, sustainable communities and cultures.
FIT5152-User interface design and usability:Maintaining continuity in a digital data driven world is emerging as a key challenge for organisations, communities, governments and societies. Digital continuity is defined as the ability to use digital information in the way that is needed for as long as it is needed. It encompasses understanding the frameworks, principles, processes and technologies underpinning intergenerational system conceptualisation, design, development and implementation. This unit will build on the introduction to digital/data curation provided in FIT5146. It will examine the laws, frameworks and policies for managing and preserving digital media and data as evidence and cultural heritage; access and appraisal strategies, policies and tools, metadata regimes for digital media and data archives; digital repository platforms, technologies, systems and tools; management of archival databases, datasets and digital media collections; and development and deployment of digital media and data archiving tools and services for users. Exemplar digital media and/data archiving initiatives and projects in the community and cultural heritage sectors will also be explored.
FIT5157-Services science:This unit is designed to introduce and explore the ways emerging technologies have opened up new possibilities for sustainability and sustainable development. This includes exploring the role of new techniques in data management, data analytics, data visualisation, modelling and simulation in exploring natural phenomena and addressing environmental problems. It also looks at the knowledge management challenges of storing, managing, integrating and utilising the ever increasing volume of data now becoming available through a variety of new techniques and technologies (e.g. Geoinformatics, remote-sensing, community-based data collection, social media). This includes the increasing importance of Big Data as well as a range of decision-support tools and techniques.
FIT5159-IT for financial decisions:This unit introduces students to problem solving concepts and techniques fundamental to the science of programming. It covers data types; data structures; algorithms; algorithmic complexity; and recursion. Detailed topics include analysis of best and worst-case time complexity; data structures such as lists, stacks, queues, binary search trees, graphs and heaps; hashing; sorting algorithms; searching algorithms; and graph algorithms. Students will implement these algorithms and data structures in the Python programming language.
FIT5164-GRID computing:This unit is a research/thesis unit for FIT Masters (Honours) degrees, taken in the final stage of the Masters (Honours) course. Before enrolling in the unit, students need to have reached agreement with a potential supervisor about a research area/feasible research topic for their Minor Thesis project.
FIT5166-Information retrieval systems:This unit is a research/thesis unit for FIT Masters (Honours) degrees, taken in the final stage of the Masters (Honours) course. Before enrolling in the unit, students need to have reached agreement with a potential supervisor about a research area/feasible research topic for their Minor Thesis project.
FIT5167-Natural computation for intelligent systems:This unit is a research/thesis unit for FIT Masters (Honours) degrees, taken in the final stage of the Masters (Honours) course. Before enrolling in the unit, students need to have reached agreement with a potential supervisor about a research area/feasible research topic for their Minor Thesis project.
FIT5168-Semi-structured data management:This unit is a research/thesis unit for FIT Masters (Honours) degrees, taken in the final stage of the Masters (Honours) course. Before enrolling in the unit, students need to have reached agreement with a potential supervisor about a research area/feasible research topic for their Minor Thesis project.
FIT5169-Probabilistic expert systems:The aim of the unit is to prepare PhD candidates from the Faculty of IT to conduct research across the range of the disciplines that cover Information and Communication Technology (ICT) research, including computer science, software engineering, at the technical end, and organisational and social informatics, which address societal needs in ICT. This unit is compulsory for all students enrolled in the FIT PhD program. The unit comprises five workshops, which address the broad philosophical, methodological and ethical underpinnings of conducting research in ICT, as well as classical and modern approaches to designing data collection and analysis for rigorous and sophisticated ICT research studies. Students have the option to choose from a list of available workshops.
FIT5170-Programming for distributed, parallel and mobile systems:The aim of the unit is to prepare PhD candidates from the Faculty of IT to conduct research across the range of the disciplines that cover Information and Communication Technology (ICT) research, including computer science, software engineering, at the technical end, and organisational and social informatics, which address societal needs in ICT. The unit comprises a set of five workshops, which address the broad philosophical, methodological and ethical underpinnings of conducting research in ICT, as well as classical and modern approaches to designing data collection and analysis for rigorous and sophisticated ICT research studies.
FIT5171-System validation and verification, quality and standards:This unit is designed to introduce students to the fundamental concepts necessary for the analysis, design, use and implementation of business information systems using relational database management systems. The main topics covered include requirements elicitation, systems analysis and design informed by a lifecycle based methodology, motivation for the database approach to managing information, conceptual modelling, coverage of logical process and data models (hierarchical, network and relational data models), and the use of SQL and other facilities provided by database management systems.
FIT5172-Computer forensics:This unit provides an introduction to the principles and practice of programming for business applications. This includes an overview of spreadsheet modelling and a detailed introduction to programming with Excel including general programming concepts, the syntax and semantics of a current business programming language, design and development of graphical user interfaces.
FIT5173-Digital communications technology and protocols:This unit introduces students to fundamentals of computer hardware and software, and networking. The unit provides knowledge of computer structure and operation, including Arithmetic-Logic Unit, computer registers, internal bus, memory; system software, including compilers and operating systems; and computer networking and data communication.
FIT5174-Parallel and distributed systems:This unit presents IT management as a project-based activity, oriented to fulfilling corporate goals, meeting business operational requirements and delivering value for an organisation. Core concepts are established: strategic contexts of IT management, systems, information systems, systems development, business processes and modelling, and IT as support for core business processes. An overview of project management processes, tools and techniques used for software development projects follows. IT-related issues and trends posing complex challenges to management and organisation of the IT resource in contemporary organisations are explored. Ethics in IT management is a central theme.
FIT5178-Applied project management:This unit will provide students with an overview of programming and its role in problem-solving and strategies for meeting user requirements and for designing solutions to programming problems. The fundamental programming concepts of the memory model, data types, declarations, expressions and statements, control structures, block structure, modules, parameters and input and output will be applied within the context of objects, attributes, methods, re-use, information-hiding, encapsulation, event-handling and message-passing. Software engineering topics include maintainability, readability, testing, documentation and modularisation.
FIT5180-Business and legal issues in project management:This unit will introduce students to basic computer hardware and operating systems software with emphasis on the concepts required to understand the low-level and internal operations of computer systems. In particular, this includes study of data representation, simple digital logic, computer organisation including CPU, memory and input/output devices, as well as machine-level and assembly language programming, and operating system concepts with examples of process management, file system structures and user interfaces.
FIT5181-Advanced topics in information systems:This unit will provide students with an introduction to systems analysis and design. It will provide a broad overview of the main techniques commonly used for carrying out the analysis and specification of the design for an computer system. The unit will examine the nature of systems analysis and design as a problem-solving activity and the nature of modelling as an analytical and a communicative process. Major topics covered include: systems analysis and design in context, analysis and problem-solving, fact-finding and data gathering, systems analysis using UML and systems design using UML.
FIT5182-Decision support systems research internship:This unit will provide an introduction to the principles and concepts of database systems their organisation and management. The issues of physical and logical data description are addressed. Various data models, and a query language, are introduced. This will include planning, designing, using and implementing a data model using an enterprise-scale relational database system. Methods and techniques will also be presented to populate, retrieve, update and implement integrity features on data in the implemented database system.
FIT5183-Mobile and distributed computing systems:Following on from FIT9008, this unit introduces more advanced object-oriented programming topics than its prerequisite, such as inheritance and polymorphism. It gives students a deeper understanding of programming and data structures by introducing recursion and dynamic data structures. It also gives more practical skills in designing, building and testing larger computer programs, including ones having graphical user interfaces, and utilising file I/O. Modern software tools to support programming activities of testing and group-based development are also demonstrated.
FIT5184-Advanced internet protocols and applications:This unit examines object-oriented systems modelling/design in greater depth than the prerequisite unit. The key disciplines of the Unified Process will be examined to set a context for analysis and design. Students will learn about static and dynamic modelling of software systems and components, using UML. Some common design patterns will be studied. Some topics about software architecture are examined. The unit prepares students to be able to design large multi-user systems such as may be implemented in a project unit, or in employment.
FIT5186-Intelligent systems:Algorithm analysis. Application and implementation of some common data structures: stacks, queues, lists, priority queues, tables, sets and collections. Data representations including: arrays, linked lists, heaps, trees (including balanced trees) and hashing. Design of application programs making use of common data structures. Design and implementation of new data structures. Study of advanced algorithms in areas such as: graph theory, pattern searching and data compression. Access to the Universitys computer systems through an Internet service provider is compulsory for off-campus students
FIT5187-Wireless networks:This unit aims to provide students with the basic concepts involved in the development of well structured software using a programming language. It concentrates on the development of problem solving skills applicable to all stages of the development process. Students gain experience with the translation of a problem specification into a program design, and the implementation of that design into a programming language. The subject introduces software engineering topics such as maintainability, readability, testing, documentation, modularisation, and reasoning about correctness of programs. Students are expected to read and understand existing code as well as develop new code.
FIT5188-Internet applications development:This unit introduces students to the fundamentals of computer systems and the computing environment, using Linux as a case study of a modern operating system. Topics covered include: CPU, memory, storage devices, peripheral hardware, networking fundamentals, operating systems fundamentals, practical Linux considerations including Desktop and Enterprise applications, file systems, shell scripting, client/server applications and system administration.
FIT5189-Web services and service oriented computing:Database concepts and models, relational database management systems, semantic data modelling, entities and entity relationship modelling, normalisation, user requirements specification, database specification. Storage media and data organisation, logical data structures: linear and non-linear. Physical database implementation, integrity, backup, recovery, security. Structured Query Language, database administration. Current topics; distributed database, data warehousing, Object-oriented database.
FIT5190-Introduction to IT research methods:The unit will introduce students to fundamentals of data and computer communications method and techniques. It covers: ISO and TCP/IP layered protocols; physical layer concepts: data transmission methods, signal encoding and digital data communication techniques; data link control protocol, multiplexing methods; WAN and LAN networking fundamentals; internetworking and transport protocols.
FIT5191-Network protocols and network security:This unit will develop the basic concepts of website authoring, from design to implementation. Students will develop skills in creating digital content which is authored to deal with the particular issues of web publishing. The unit will examine HTML/XHTML, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), the W3C Document Object Model (DOM) and JavaScript as the fundamental website authoring suite. In addition HTML embedded script languages will be used to create dynamic database driven content. The unit will also introduce wider W3C standards, web usability and web design specification.
FIT5192-Enterprise and internet applications development:This unit provides a focus on specialist tools and techniques that are used for developing content-rich interactive multimedia systems using Adobe Flash. This unit will cover fundamental multimedia principles, practical development processes, the integration of mixed-media assets, interactive design and animation for digital media and different technologies for product deployment. Students will create content-rich interactive CD-ROM and Web-based products using industry standard authoring tools and will gain an understanding of the role of digital media within the broader technology environment.
FIT5193-Network security:This unit will examine the activities integral to the development of a multimedia systems, detailing the techniques of systems analysis and design used in the development process. Fundamental programming concepts will be introduced within a multimedia scripting language framework as a mechanism for system development. Students will be involved in a mixture of individual and group-based work which will require application of the theoretical knowledge gained in lectures to a series of practical problems in multimedia systems development.
FIT5194-Computer based global project management:The unit introduces students to the key principles which underlie the analysis and design of computer-based information systems to support business and other organisational undertakings. It describes the development life cycle of an information system and provides students with an introductory knowledge of the process of information systems development and the techniques used.
FIT5195-Business intelligence and data warehousing:This unit introduces students to problem solving concepts and techniques fundamental to the science of programming. It covers data types; data structures; algorithms; algorithmic complexity; and recursion. Detailed topics include analysis of best and worst-case time complexity; data structures such as lists, stacks, queues, binary search trees, graphs and heaps; hashing; sorting algorithms; searching algorithms; and graph algorithms. Students will implement these algorithms and data structures in the Python programming language.
FIT5196-Data wrangling:The unit provides a basic introduction to fundamental information systems concepts including basic business concepts, information technology strategy and governance, sourcing, the different kinds of IT systems at both enterprise and desktop scales, introduction to architectures and professional practice and introductory project management.
FIT5197-Modelling for data analysis:This unit introduces students to the key principles which underlie the analysis and design of information systems to support business and other organisational undertakings. It covers design and design thinking, requirements elicitation, consulting skills and conceptual and logical systems modelling.
FIT5199-IT minor research project:This unit aims to provide students with the basic concepts involved in the development of well structured software using a programming language. It concentrates on the development of problem solving skills applicable to all stages of the development process. Students gain experience with the translation of a problem specification into a program design, and the implementation of that design into a programming language. The unit introduces software engineering topics such as maintainability, readability, testing, documentation, modularisation, and reasoning about correctness of programs. Students are expected to read and understand existing code as well as develop new code.
FIT5201-Data analysis algorithms:This unit will introduce the concept of data management in an organisation through relational database technology. Theoretical foundation of relational model, analysis and design, implementation of relational database using SQL will be covered.
FIT5202-Data processing for big data:This unit introduces programming fundamentals and the Python language to students. The unit provides a foundational understanding of program design and implementation of algorithms to solve computational problems. Fundamental programming control structures, built in and complex data types and mechanisms for modularity will be presented in Python. Topics covered will include basic input and output, program control structures, basic data structures and modular program structures, problem solving strategies and techniques for algorithm development, iteration and recursion.
FIT5203-Community informatics:This unit introduces students to the fundamentals of computer systems and the computing environment, using Linux as a case study of a modern operating system. Topics covered include: CPU, memory, storage devices, peripheral hardware, networking fundamentals, operating systems fundamentals, practical Linux considerations including Desktop and Enterprise applications, file systems, shell scripting, client/server applications and system administration.
FIT5204-Heritage informatics:The unit will introduce students to fundamentals of data and computer communications method and techniques. It covers: ISO and TCP/IP layered protocols; physical layer concepts: data transmission methods, signal encoding and digital data communication techniques; data link control protocol, multiplexing methods; WAN and LAN networking fundamentals; internetworking and transport protocols.
FIT9019-Database technology:This unit is the first in a sequence to introduce students to a range of leading contemporary art practices and methodologies. The unit promotes a cutting-edge approach to conceptual and material processes through interdisciplinary transaction, material and fabrication procedures. Associated projects are introduced based on theories of contemporary art practices, collaborative practices and individual modes of research focused outcomes. Students will develop inventive and sustainable solutions to a series of projects that will enable them to develop a personal methodology and language.
FIT9020-Data communications:This unit is the second in the Contemporary Practices sequence. It continues to challenge students in a range of leading contemporary art practices and methodologies. The unit promotes a cutting-edge approach to conceptual and material processes through interdisciplinary transaction, material and fabrication procedures. Associated projects are introduced based on theories of contemporary art practices, collaborative practices and individual modes of research focused outcomes. Students will develop inventive and sustainable solutions to a series of projects that will enable them to form the basis of personal methodology and material language.
FIT9027-Website authoring:This subject introduces students to a range of procedures and techniques through set projects. Although conceptual, aesthetic and theoretical concerns are addressed, this subject primarily focuses on developing students' technical and perceptual skills. The introduction to a found language of visual communication including the use of line, tone, texture and form in coherent compositions is examined. Several printmaking techniques are introduced with specific projects to explore their potential for visual expression.
FIT9028-Flash animation and applications:This subject examines a range of procedures and techniques through set projects. While conceptual, aesthetic and theoretical concerns are addressed, this subject primarily concentrates on improving students' technical skills. The importance of a found language through which visual concepts can be expressed is emphasised.
FIT9029-Developing multimedia systems:Introduction to basic weaving techniques, including methods of joining, colour mixing and understanding of materials. The subject focuses on developing students' technical and perceptual skills. Topics include the role and use of space, surface and structure, as well as projects concentrating on composition and drawing-based construction of form and space.
FIT9030-Systems analysis and design:This unit introduces students to the use of 3D digital modelling software to explore the development, visualisation and production of objects. It will provide students with knowledge of how to build and manipulate digital models, using the following CAD (Computer Aided Design) software; Rhino (Rhinoceros 3D), MeshMixer & 3D Coat. In addition to 'first principle' modelling, there will be an introduction to the creation of digital models using 3D scanning and photogrammetry technology. Students will also be exploring visualisation imaging using complimentary rendering software Vray, and will be producing physical outputs of their digital models utilising laser.
FIT9059-Algorithms and data structures:Skills in accessing the facilities and materials necessary to specific practice. The weekly group seminar provides an arena for students to test their conceptual concerns and a forum for visiting practitioners to display their work and talk to it.
FIT9123-Introduction to business information systems:Skills in accessing the facilities and materials necessary to specific practice. The weekly group seminar provides an arena for students to test their conceptual concerns and a forum for visiting practitioners to display their work and talk to it.
FIT9130-Systems analysis and design:This unit is the third in the sequence for students to continue a range of leading contemporary art practices and methodologies. The unit promotes conceptual and material processes through painting, sculpture, print and photomedia, integrated drawing, interdisciplinary exchange, material and fabrication procedures. Associated projects are introduced based on theories of contemporary art practices, collaborative practices and individual modes of research focused outcomes. Students will develop inventive and sustainable solutions to a series of projects that will enable them to continue to develop a personal methodology and language.
FIT9131-Programming foundations in Java:This unit is the fourth in the sequence for students to continue a range of leading contemporary art practices and methodologies. The unit promotes conceptual and material processes through interdisciplinary exchange, material and fabrication procedures. Associated projects are introduced based on theories of contemporary art practices, collaborative practices and individual modes of research focused outcomes. Students will develop inventive and sustainable solutions to a series of projects that will enable them to continue to develop a personal methodology and language.
FIT9132-Introduction to databases:The course will centre on the town of Montispertoli, with its spectacular examples of traditional Tuscan landscape, which formed the backdrop to much Tuscan art from the 14th to the 16th centuries. Studies on the history of Tuscan painting will also be included as well as visits to many of the great Italian painting collections. The colours, shapes and techniques of production will form part of the study as will an understanding of the geography and flora of the landscape.
FIT9133-Programming foundations in python:This course will introduce the history and development of landscape representation, and through practical exercises will acquaint students with a visual vocabulary to meet their expressive needs. The subject will enable students to render the diverse moods of natural and built environment landscapes under a variety of lighting conditions and to convey the complexity of this genre.
FIT9134-Computer architecture and operating systems:This subject introduces the history and development of the representation of the human figure and, through practical exercises, acquaints students with a visual vocabulary to meet their expressive needs. Using the model to explore a variety of different poses and contexts, this subject enables students to render the human image under a variety of lighting conditions and convey an understanding of how the figure can be such a powerful and expressive subject.
FIT9135-Data communications:A practical introduction to the specialised knowledge and skill required for portraiture in the mediums of painting and drawing. Observation, representation and characterisation in studio sessions making use of the life model. Issues related to the suitable posing, setting and lighting of individual human subjects are explored.
FITGC1004-Data mgt:Projects dealing with metal sculpture emphasising experimentation. Seminars discuss contemporary attitudes and historical traditions of metal casting.
FITGC1031-Computers & networks:Projects dealing with sculpture of a permanent and non-permanent nature, with an emphasis on experimentation. Seminars discuss contemporary attitudes relating to sculpture and provide a forum to review work produced.
FITGC1040-Programming fundamentals:This subject provides Art and Design students with an elective option in textiles and a studio experience in a textile discipline. Students will, in consultation with the lecturer, initiate and resolve a number of projects around a textile concept, method or technique. Group and individual tutorials will support students in their exploration and will provide useful feedback and advice. Additionally, slide talks, visiting artists, gallery and museum visits supplement and support studio investigations.
FITGC2001-Systems development:Art & Design in film is an elective unit involving close visual analysis of selected feature films. While embracing theoretical concerns the primary emphasis is on the visual component of the film and the unit is therefore particularly suited to Art Design and Architecture students. The unit will involve a close analysis of films by exploring certain themes and visual strategies. This will be done in the context of cinema history and theory. Students will also be set creative tasks culminating in the production of a short moving image work or a cinema-informed artwork.
FITGC2002-Project mgt:This unit is the fifth in the Contemporary Practices sequence. In this unit emphasis is placed on independent investigation, and the development of the creative and expressive potential inherent in students' work. Imagination combined with advanced conceptualisation and innovation in material manipulation should be manifest at this stage of students' practice. Whilst providing a stimulating and supportive environment this unit provides a bridge between students' experience in the supervised studio and a fully-fledged independent professional practice in the broader arts arena.
FITGC2003-IT professional practice:This unit is the last and culminating unit in the Contemporary Practices sequence. In this unit emphasis is placed on independent investigation, and the development of the creative and expressive potential inherent in students' work. Imagination combined with advanced conceptualisation and innovation in material manipulation should be manifest at this stage of students' practice. Students develop individual programs in conjunction with the lecturers that reflect their personal direction and evolving art practice. The program focuses on clear articulation of concepts. Lecturers facilitate students' own exploration, primarily through personal tuition where detailed analysis and discussion of students' work takes place. Whilst providing a stimulating and supportive environment this unit provides a bridge between students' experience in the supervised studio and a fully-fledged independent professional practice in the broader arts arena. The work produced culminates in an end of year exhibition of a professional standard, preparing students for entry into the professional world as fine artists in the discipline of choice, or the pursuit of further studies at a higher level.
FITGC2005-Software analysis, design & architecture:This unit will offer a continuation of skills and knowledge acquired in its introductory unit VCO2903. Students will be asked to work at an advanced level of production - either individually or in collaboration - while scrutinising current cinema practice in greater depth. Art & Design in film is an elective unit involving close visual analysis of selected feature films. The unit focuses on design as part of the visual language of film. While embracing theoretical concerns the primary emphasis is on the design component of the film and the unit is therefore particularly suited to Art and Design students. The unit will involve a close analysis of films as complete works, but more particularly by exploring certain themes and visual strategies. This will be done in the context of cinema history and theory. Students will also be set creative tasks culminating in the production of a longer moving image work or a cinema-informed artwork.
FITGC2009-Data structures & algorithms:Studio at honours level is research-oriented and non-prescriptive in terms of content. Students produce a proposal at the beginning of the semester but are free to carry out their work with any number of deviations from their original plans. The intentions of students and the results of their work are debated in group discussions and critical sessions.
FITGC2020-Network architecture:Studio at honours level is research-oriented and non-prescriptive in the terms of its content. Students produce a proposal at the beginning of the semester but are free to carry out their work with any number of deviations from their original plans. The intentions of students and the results of their work are debated in group discussions and critical sessions.
FITGC2029-Web programming:Studio practice at the honours level is advanced and research-based. Studio Methodology is designed to compliment the primary Bachelor of Fine Art Honours studio research project unit, Project Studies, by introducing students to advanced studio research methodologies. Through a discursive engagement with this range of methodologies and their field of enquiry, the student will be able to develop a studio-based practice appropriate for their individual Honours year project.
IMM2011-Basic immunology: The body's defence system:This unit gives students the opportunity to further develop the ideas concepts, materials and processes begun in Metals and jewellery 2A unit. Students will extend the establishment of an individual and self directed practice within the broad parameters of the metals and jewellery discipline. Methods and materials specific to the metals and jewellery discipline will be demonstrated and practiced. Students will be encouraged to develop further appropriate links between these methods and other means of creative self-expression. Set projects will require students to develop technical skills hand in hand with their understanding of concepts of current relevance.
IMM2022-Immunology in health and disease:In Jewellery Practice 3 the experience of previous units is used to incrementally build upon and extend students' knowledge and experience in both making and critical thinking. The continued research of contemporary jewellery and its various contexts, supports the student's increased understanding of the potential of the practice and the opportunity to develop innovative ideas. The emphasis in this unit is on facilitating the development of student's ideas with increasing sophistication that demonstrates an advanced level of practice, underpinned by practical and theoretical research.
IMM3031-Molecular and cellular immunology:Jewellery Practice 4 builds on previous study providing students with a solid basis from which to develop their ideas and research in a more independent way. At this stage of their development students will begin to focus more on their own interests in a particular area of jewellery and object-based practice maintaining an experimental approach to their research. This unit will guide students towards a more self-directed way of working within the discipline. The emphasis is on articulating new ideas that contribute to contemporary jewellery and object-based practice in an interesting and progressive way and to realise these ideas at an advanced level.
IMM3042-Clinical immunopathology:This Metals and jewellery 3B unit extends the rigorous program to broaden students' awareness of concepts and techniques across a range of approaches, and further encourage them to seek appropriate solutions. Continued research and investigation of materials and processes fosters the acquisition of technical language, and influences appropriate choices to realise concepts within the context of a developing personal visual language. The emphasis is more on self-motivated approaches than on set projects. Teaching methods therefore tend to concentrate on individual tuition and group critique.
IMM3051-Principles of applied immunology:In this Metals and jewellery 4B unit students become more responsible for the delivery of their major study program, with emphasis placed on increasingly independent investigation, and the further development of the creative and expressive potential inherent in students' work. This, combined with staff consultation, continues to determine students' focuses for future metals and jewellery studio work. Self-motivated practice and research through which students articulate their conceptual and expressive strengths is increasingly utilised. Studio practice is less exploratory and with better grasp of theoretical issues relevant to students' practices.
IMM3062-Clinical and research laboratory immunology:This level 3 metals and jewellery unit finely hones the skills acquired over the previous two years. At this stage of the course, students should demonstrate a high level of technical competence, facilitating work in their chosen field. Imagination combined with advanced conceptual lucidity, a prowess and innovation in material manipulation should be manifest at this stage of students' practice. Students develop an individual program in conjunction with the lecturer that reflects their personal direction and evolving metals and jewellery practice. The program focuses on clear articulation of concepts.
IMM3802-Essentials of applied immunology:This unit is the culmination of the metals and jewellery undergraduate program, and provides a stimulating and supportive environment. Students continue to work autonomously within an individually approved program of study as lecturers encourage the self-motivation, self-appraisal and professional responsibility required of the practising artist. A coordinator supervises the program and gives guidance as it is required and at the request of the students. Students continue to critically appraise their work and consolidate all conceptual, aesthetic and technical issues that relate to the individual direction of their metals and jewellery work.
MAE2401-Aircraft structures 1:This unit develops and strengthens practical skills required for implementing Indigenous equity. Delivery of effective, high standard services to Indigenous people is one of the enduring challenges facing a variety organisations and providers. In this unit students will explore and engage in practical skills of: cultural safety; partnership building; organisational development and analysis of the strengths based evidence. Students will be provided opportunity to critically analyse current practices in Indigenous equity, design evidence based advocacy and create a strategic change plan of relevance to their professional work and aspirations.
MAE2402-Thermodynamics and heat transfer:This unit is designed to equip students with the skills to design a research protocol for implementation in the post-requisite unit MAP5010 Advanced health practice research project (for the 24 credit point research project)or MAP5001 and MAP5002 (for the 36 credit point minor thesis). This will provide health practitioners with the skills to confidently and successfully conduct professional focused research of interest to them. Students will review existing research literature, create a research question, select an appropriate methodology and finalise a research protocol for institutional ethics approval. Successful completion of MAP5000 and MAP5010 or MAP5000, MAP5001 and MAP5002 with an overall grade of 70 Distinction or above may permit a student to apply for a graduate research program including the PhD at Monash University.
MAE2403-Aerospace computational mechanics:This unit is designed to allow students to implement the research protocol developed in the context of the prerequisite unit MAP5000 Research in Advanced Health Care Practice. Students will develop skills in gathering data, interrogating it using acceptable analytical processes and developing an informed and defensible conclusion. Through an iterative and collaborative intellectual process with their supervisor, students will create a research report which they will communicate in written format to a wider professional audience. Successful completion of MAP5000, MAP5001 and MAP5002 with an overall grade of 70 Distinction or above may permit a student to apply for a graduate research program including the PhD at Monash University.
MAE2404-Aerodynamics 1:This unit is the final unit in a sequence of three units designed for students who have elected to complete a minor thesis and use the study as evidence of independent research experience in an application for entry into the PhD program. Using the research protocol developed in the context of the prerequisite unit MAP5000 and the project completed for MAP5001 students will develop advanced skills in gathering and interrogating data using acceptable analytical processes and developing an informed and defensible conclusion. Successful completion of MAP5000, MAP5001 and MAP5002 with an overall grade of 70 Distinction or above may permit a student to apply for a graduate research program including the PhD at Monash University.
MAE2405-Aircraft performance:This unit is designed for health care professionals who aspire to lead the management, design and delivery of health care services and/or develop health care programs in a clinical context that improve patient outcomes. This unit focuses on the necessary knowledge, skills and behaviours for advanced health care practice. The unit examines key issues for the advanced health care professional, including: (1) medico-legal issues in compliance, competency, and credentialing; (2) professional behaviour and interprofessional practice; (3) using research frameworks and clinical practice guidelines as evidence to inform practice; (4) quality, patient safety, patient experiences, and benchmarking; (5) delivering and evaluating patient and consumer centred health care and communication within digital and practice settings; (6) the advanced practitioner as educator of patients, consumers and peers and (7) leadership in implementing practice change.
MAE2406-Orbital mechanics and spaceflight dynamics:This unit is designed to allow students to implement the research protocol developed in the context of the prerequisite unit MAP5000 Research in Advanced Health Care Practice'. Students will develop skills in gathering data, interrogating it using acceptable analytical processes and develop an informed and defensible conclusion. Through an iterative and collaborative intellectual process with their supervisor, students will create a research report, which they will communicate in written format to a wider professional audience. Successful completion of MAP5000 and MAP5010 with an overall grade of 70 Distinction or above may permit a student to apply for a graduate research program including the PhD at Monash University.
MAE3401-Aerodynamics 2:This unit has been created in collaboration with the Alfred ICU for students seeking credit from studies in critical care in extracorporeal support, transthoracic echocardiography, transoesophageal echocardiography, critical care ultrasound and airway, bronchoscopy and ventilation.
MAE3402-Aerospace design project:This unit has been created in collaboration with the Alfred Emergency and Trauma Centre for students seeking credit from studies in Emergency and Trauma Evidence Based Medicine; Emergency and Trauma Research Methods; Emergency and Trauma Clinical Leadership and Management and Emergency Medicine Theory and Practice.
MAE3404-Flight vehicle dynamics:This unit has been created in collaboration with the Alfred Emergency and Trauma Centre for students seeking credit from studies in Emergency and Trauma Evidence Based Medicine; Emergency and Trauma Research Methods; Emergency and Trauma Clinical Leadership and Management and Trauma Theory and Practice.
MAT1097-Quantitative analysis:Students will partake in experiential learning project by working together on a group based project in an assigned organisation. Supervised by an academic member of staff and assisted by the organisation's representative, the group will be guided through the processes of: proposal preparation, data collection and analysis, project implementation, business planning and project reporting.
MAT14-Mathematics for Sciences and Technology 1A:The MBA Study Tour integrates, in a practical manner, the material covered in the MBA program. Depending upon the destination/s chosen (which may vary from year to year), MBA students will partake in a combination of site visits to local organisations, companies and institutions in order to better understand the impact of that location's environment on business and its implications for management. At the end of the MBA Study Tour students are expected to have not only gained an insight into the business environment of the location visited but also be able to draw upon ideas from that environment to develop capabilities that may be able to be applied in other environments and organisational contexts.
MAT15-Mathematics for Sciences and Technology 1B:This foundational unit focuses on the practice and development of key critical thinking skills required by a business leader to achieve superior performance. Through interactive group work, role play, case studies and a variety of situational exercises, this unit will introduce students to methods of analytical reasoning to successfully manage business problems and interpret and produce clear and sound arguments in relation to business issues of general interest. In addition, students will develop questioning strategies to support a critical inquiry approach to their learning and research activities throughout the program.
MAT17-Discrete Maths:The objective of this unit is for the executive to understand and apply data analysis techniques to address business problems through an applied approach. With the support of software, executives will learn how to apply various analytical tools but, more importantly, understand the findings and interpret their value in a business context. Sharing/communicating these analytically derived insights, so that they are readily accessible to, and actionable by management, is a further objective of this unit. Topics covered include data description and summation, data mining, confidence intervals and hypothesis testing, regression analysis, time series and forecasting and decision making under uncertainty. Software used will be Microsoft Excel, with Palisade add-ins.
MATGC2731-Multivariate Analysis:The internship gives Medical Bioscience students the opportunity to apply their university learning to the work place, providing students with experience in tailoring their academic-based learning to the needs of an industry-based partner, and to network with potential employers. This will prepare students for work or professional practice by integrating theoretical knowledge with practice. Students will learn about the process of applying for employment and good workplace practice. The internship will generally be over the summer break and commence in December. It can be taken any time after the completion of level two.
MATGC2742-Math Modelling of the Enviro:Students will undertake a supervised research project. Students will carry out a research project and present the results of their study in both written and oral form. Information about research projects will be available from the course coordinator towards the end of the preceding semester.
MEC2402-Engineering design 1:MED3051 is an integrated medicine/surgery curriculum based on the four themes of the medical curriculum: Personal and professional development; population, society, health and illness; foundations of medicine; and clinical skills. Evidence-based educational approaches support students in acquiring appropriate knowledge, attitudes and skills in medicine, surgery, clinical skills, evidence-based clinical practice, occupational and environmental medicine, pathophysiology, pharmacology, ethics and law. Previous learning will be extended.
MEC2403-Mechanics of materials:MED3062 is an integrated medicine/surgery curriculum based on the four themes of the medical curriculum: personal and professional development; population, society, health and illness; foundations of medicine; and clinical skills. Evidence-based educational approaches support students in acquiring appropriate knowledge, attitudes and skills in medicine, surgery, clinical skills, evidence-based clinical practice, occupational and environmental medicine, patho-physiology, pharmacology, ethics and law. Previous learning will be extended. By the end of the semester students must be capable of undertaking history and clinical examinations of patients with straightforward conditions.
MEC2405-Thermodynamics:Introductory Clinical Studies integrates the learning across MED3051 and MED3062. Learning activities specific to each specialty area will be linked to the specific clinical placement and may include lectures, tutorials, case-based learning, bed- side tutorials, practical skills sessions, and specialty teaching clinics and directed learning activities.
MEC2407-Electromechanics:MED4000 provides an overall result for Year 3B and 4C MBBS based upon achievement in Year 3B and Year 4C. A grade will be awarded for MED4000 which is based on student achievement in MED3051, MED3062, MED3200, MED4091 and MED4200. A student must pass MED4200 and MED4190 before a grade in MED4000 will be awarded.
MEC2408-Advanced engineering technologies:Specialty Clinical Practices II provides clinical teaching in Children's Health, General Practice, Psychiatry and Women's Health. Students will undertake clinical placements in at least 2 specialty areas across the semester. Learning activities, tailored to the specific placement, may include lectures, tutorials, case-based learning, bedside tutorials, practical skills sessions, and specialty teaching clinics and directed learning activities. Students are expected to attend clinical settings, undertake independent learning activities and consolidate knowledge and skills from previous learning. EBCP and Health Economics components will be integrated with placement activities.
MEC2456-Engineering computational analysis:Specialty Clinical Practices provides clinical teaching in Children's Health, General Practice, Psychiatry and Women's Health. Students will undertake clinical placements in at least 2 specialty areas across the semester. Learning activities, tailored to the specific placement, may include lectures, tutorials, case-based learning, bedside tutorials, practical skills sessions, and specialty teaching clinics and directed learning activities. Students are expected to attend clinical settings, undertake independent learning activities and consolidate knowledge and skills from previous learning. EBCP and Health Economics components will be integrated with placement activities.
MEC3416-Engineering design 2:Integrated Clinical Studies builds upon learning in the specialty clinical areas of Children's Health, General Practice, Psychiatry and Women's Health. Students will undertake clinical placements in each specialty clinical areas across the year. Learning activities specific to each specialty area will be linked to the specific clinical placement and may include lectures, tutorials, case-based learning, bedside tutorials, practical skills sessions, and specialty teaching clinics and directed learning activities. Students are expected to consolidate knowledge and skills through both experiential learning in clinical settings and self directed study.
MEC3451-Fluid mechanics 2:This unit aims to develop the two most common skills that are required for the communication of medical research proposals and medical research findings. Students will develop their written communication skills by writing a review of the literature review developing a strong justification for their aim and hypothesis. Students will develop their oral communication skills by giving an oral presentation and answering questions on their research proposal, early in the Honours year.
MEC3453-Dynamics 2:This unit allows students to undertake a supervised research project aimed at identifying and addressing a gap in medical research knowledge. It is designed to give students a strong foundation in the principles and practice of research. It will also enable students to develop a wide variety of skills including data analysis and communication of medical and scientific ideas in oral presentations and a written thesis. Students will be able to select from a wide range of project proposals that will enable them to pursue a specific area of interest working with their chosen supervisor.
MEC3454-Thermodynamics and heat transfer:MED5091 is focused on facilitating the transition of students into the medical workplace as beginning interns. Students will participate in a range of learning experiences which are designed to substantially enhance their clinical reasoning, diagnostic and case management skills. Students will participate in supervised clinical practice and related learning activities (learning modules). Furthermore, students will have the opportunity to broaden their knowledge and skills in self selected areas of clinical practice which may include electing a remote community, health or medicine related field.
MEC3455-Solid mechanics:MED5092 is focused on facilitating the transition of students into the medical workplace as beginning interns. Students will participate in a range of learning experiences which are designed to substantially enhance their clinical reasoning, diagnostic and case management skills. Students will participate in supervised clinical practice and related learning activities (learning modules). Furthermore, students will have the opportunity to broaden their knowledge and skills in self selected areas of clinical practice which may include electing a remote community, health or medicine related field.
MEC3456-Engineering computational analysis:This unit indicates the honours grade obtained by a student on completion of the five years of the MBBS degree. Students are not eligible for honours if they take more than five years (not including intermitted years) to complete the course. The grade is derived from a formula approved by faculty board as outlined below.
MEC3457-Systems and control:Medical practitioners are frequently required to respond to emerging and consolidating innovations and policies related to clinical practice. MED5102 further develops the concept of 'readiness to practice' and focuses upon the development of students' understanding of the principles of Patient Safety and the related clinical competencies. The unit will provide students with an understanding of the role of research in Patient Safety and the application of these principles and practices in diverse contexts. The unit will have the capacity to respond to other issues/innovations/policy changes as they arise in medical practice.
MEC3458-Experimental project:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
MEC3459-Materials selection for engineering design:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
MEC4401-Final year project:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
MEC4402-Final year project - Thesis:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
MEC4404-Professional practice:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
MEC4407-Engineering design III:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
MEC4425-Micro/nano solid and fluid mechanics:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
MEC4426-Computer-aided design:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
MEC4428-Advanced dynamics:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
MEC4444-Industrial noise and control:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
MEC4801-Non-destructive testing and inspection:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
MEC4802-Sustainable engineering and design with nanomaterials:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
MEC5881-Engineering systems performance analysis:This unit aims to facilitate the process of research in emergency health. Firstly, the unit will extend the knowledge and understanding of research methodology gained in the research methods unit; and additionally focus attention upon a range of practical, technical and management issues associated with the conduct of scientific research. The unit will facilitate student access to academics or clinicians offering projects, and who will support the student during all stages of the inquiry process.
MSM5100-Research project - Master of Biomedical Science MUM:Vector spaces, linear transformations. Determinants, eigenvalue problems. Inner products, symmetric matrices, quadratic forms. Linear functionals and dual spaces. Matrix decompositions, least squares approximation, power method. Applications to areas such as coding, economics, networks, graph theory, geometry, dynamical systems, Markov chains, differential equations.
MSM5101-Research project - Master of Biomedical Science MUM (part-time):This unit introduces mathematical techniques for differential equations. These equations appear in a number of physical models, such as oscillations, heat conduction and transport equations. Methods to study ordinary differential equations include separation of variables, substituting methods, variation of parameters, series solutions and numerical techniques (Euler, Heun's method). Partial differential equations describing physical models are derived, and analysed through Fourier series, separation of variables and characteristics techniques.
MSM5200-Advanced studies in biomedical sciences MUM:The mathematical modelling of physical systems is based upon differential equations and linear algebra. This unit will introduce fundamental techniques for studying linear systems and ordinary differential equations, focusing on applications to physical systems. The topics in linear algebra to be considered include: eigenvalues and eigenvectors, diagonalisation of square matrices, matrix functions, LU-decomposition, applications. The topics in optimisation include: Lagrange multipliers, the method of least-squares, linear programming, applications. Finally, the topics in ordinary differential equations include: advanced Laplace transforms, Fourier transforms, matrix solutions of constant coefficient systems, conservative systems, phase-planes of simple non-linear ODEs, applications. Students will be introduced to the Mathematica computer package, and learn how to use it for analytic and numerical calculations and graphics. It will be integrated into most activities.
MSM5201-Advanced studies in biomedical sciences MUM (part-time):The unit offers a practical introduction to numerical computing. It begins by introducing the computing package MATLAB, which is widely used in science and engineering. MATLAB will be the basis for all teaching and practical work. Topics covered include error analysis, the solution of algebraic equations; approximations of functions: curve fitting, least squares and interpolation; analysis of data by Fourier Transforms and FFTs; numerical differentiation and integration; ordinary differential equations. These topics will be supported with case studies drawn from various disciplines in the physical sciences.
MTE2541-Crystal structures, thermodynamics and phase equilibria:An introduction to real analysis with a special focus on sequences of real numbers and functions. Topics covered include properties of real numbers (infima/suprema and the axiom of completeness), sequences and series of real numbers (order limit theorem, Cauchy sequences and completeness, compactness), properties of functions over the reals (intermediate value theorem, mean value theorem), sequences and series of functions (pointwise and uniform convergence, the Weierstrass M-test, continuity and differentiability of the limit). Emphasis will be on rigorous mathematical proof and examples will be provided to show how intuition can be misleading.
MTE2542-Microstructural development:Rings, fields, ideals, algebraic extension fields. Coding theory and cryptographic applications of finite fields. Gaussian integers, Hamilton's quaternions. Euclidean Algorithm in rings.
MTE2544-Functional materials:In this unit we develop the theory of metric spaces, Banach spaces and Hilbert spaces. Topics covered include a basic introduction to metric spaces, topology in metric and Banach spaces, dual spaces, continuous linear mappings between Banach spaces, weak convergence and weak compactness in separable Banach spaces, Hilbert spaces and the Riesz representation theorem. Applications of these theories may include the contraction mapping theorem and its usage to prove the Cauchy-Lipschitz theorem (existence and uniqueness of solution to ordinary differential equations).
MTE2545-Polymers and ceramics 1:This unit provides an introduction to graph theory, which is the mathematics of networks. Topics covered include trees, Eulerian tours, Hamiltonian cycles, shortest path problem, bipartite graphs, matchings, graph colouring, max-flow problem, graph connectivity, independent sets, planarity, random graphs. Applications to a variety of the sciences will be presented. Students will learn how to write proofs and analyse algorithms.
MTE2546-Mechanics of materials:Multivariate distributions. Estimation: maximum of likelihood and method of moments. Confidence intervals. Analysis in the time domain: stationary models, autocorrelation, partial autocorrelation. ARMA and ARIMA models. Analysis in the frequency domain (Spectral analysis): spectrum, periodigram, linear and digital filters, cross-correlations and cross-spectrum, spectral estimators, confidence interval for the spectral density. State-space models. Kalman filter. Empirical Orthogonal Functions and other Eigen Methods. Use of ITSM.
MTE2547-Structure-property relationships in materials:This unit introduces the methods of stochastic processes and statistics used in the analysis of biological data, physics, economics and engineering. At the completion of the unit students will understand the application of classical techniques, such as Poisson processes, Markov chains, hidden Markov chains, random walks, martingale theory, birth and death processes, and branching processes in the analysis of DNA sequences, population genetics, dynamics of populations, telecommunications and economic analysis.
MTE2548-Biomaterials 1:Random variables, application to models of random payoffs. Conditional expectation. Normal distribution and multivariate normal distribution. Best predictors. Stochastic (random) processes. Random walk. Limit theorems. Brownian motion. Ito integral and Ito's formula. Black-Scholes, Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process and Vasicek's stochastic differential equations. Martingales. Gambler's ruin. Fundamental theorems of Mathematical Finance. Binomial and Black-Scholes models. Models for Interest Rates. Risk models in insurance. Ruin probability bound. Principles of simulation. Use of Excel package.
MTE3541-Materials durability:Many practical experiments involve repeated measurements made over a period of time, where the individuals or systems being observed are evolving during the study period. Examples of this kind of data arise in signal processing, financial modelling and mathematical biology. For experiments of this kind, standard statistical methods that assume data points are independent and identically distributed (iid) are of limited value, due to dependencies among measurements. This unit will introduce statistical methods for such processes. Topics: Review of fundamental statistics: their distributions, properties and limitations; Stochastic Processes: Markov, ARMA, Stationary and Diffusion Processes; Likelihood models, Graphical models, Bayesian models; Decision theory, Likelihood ratio tests, Bayesian model comparison; Sufficient statistics, Maximum Likelihood Estimation, Bayesian Estimation; Exponential families; Convergence of random variables and measures; Properties of estimators: bias, consistency, efficiency; Laws of Large Numbers and Ergodic Theorems, Central Limit Theorems; Statistics for Stationary Processes; Statistics for ARMA Processes; Statistics for Diffusion Processes
MTE3542-Microstructural design in structural materials:This unit will broaden students' exposure to the toolkit of applied mathematics techniques required to tackle various problems encountered in real-world modelling. Building on the prerequisite knowledge of linear algebra and multivariable calculus, students will learn methods for solving optimization problems, fitting models to data, stochastic modelling, discrete event simulation, and some elementary queueing theory. Application areas include traffic modelling, image processing, inventory management, logistics and other industrial problems that students will have the opportunity to consider. Assessment will include working in teams to solve real-world problems, and presenting the results to the client.
MTE3543-Microstructure to applications: the mechanics of materials:The overall aim of this unit is to study the numerical methods for matrix computations that lie at the core of a wide variety of large-scale computations and innovations in the sciences, engineering, technology and data science. Students will receive an introduction to the mathematical theory of numerical methods for linear algebra (with derivations of the methods and some proofs). This will broadly include methods for solving linear systems of equations, least-squares problems, eigenvalue problems, and other matrix decompositions. Special attention will be paid to conditioning and stability, dense versus sparse problems, and direct versus iterative solution techniques. Students will learn to implement the computational methods efficiently, and will learn how to thoroughly test their implementations for accuracy and performance. Students will work on realistic matrix models for applications in a variety of fields. Applications may include, for example: computation of electrostatic potentials and heat conduction problems; eigenvalue problems for electronic structure calculation; ranking algorithms for webpages; algorithms for movie recommendation, classification of handwritten digits, and document clustering; and principal component analysis in data science.
MTE3545-Functional materials and devices:The continuum hypothesis; notion of a fluid particle; pathlines and streamlines. Eulerian and Lagrangian frameworks; the material derivative. Conservation of mass; incompressibility; streamfunctions. Forces acting on a fluid; the stress tensor; conservation of momentum; the constitutive relation; the incompressible Navier-Stokes equations. Boundary conditions. Exact solutions of Navier-Stokes equations. Non-dimensionalization and dimensional analysis; Reynolds number. Low Reynolds number flows. Vorticity; circulation; Helmholtz' vorticity equation; properties of vorticity; Kelvin's circulation theorem. Lubrication theory. Inviscid flows; potential flows. Boundary layer equations and flows.
MTE3546-Polymers and ceramics 2:Advanced studies by lectures or reading project in an area of mathematics, statistics or related discipline, or a comparable project under the supervision of a member of academic staff in the School of Mathematical Sciences.
MTE3547-Materials characterisation and modelling:Advanced studies by lectures or reading project in an area of mathematics, statistics or related discipline, or a comparable project under the supervision of a member of academic staff in the School of Mathematical Sciences.
MTE3591-Composites, thermosets and elastomers:Students undertake honours level coursework in an area of mathematics or statistics.
MTE4525-Project 1:Students undertake honours level coursework in an area of mathematics or statistics.
MTE4526-Project 2:Students undertake honours level coursework in an area of mathematics or statistics.
MTE4571-Materials engineering design and practice:Students undertake honours level coursework in an area of mathematics or statistics.
MTE4572-Polymer and composite processing and engineering:Completion of a 'project and research skills' component along with one lecture topic chosen from the fourth-year offerings as approved by the coordinator. A list of the fourth-year lecture and project topics is available at enrolment. The 'project and research skills' component can take one of two forms: 1. A major research project, in which the student is expected to contribute new results to the field of mathematics; 2. A reading project, in which the student completes their mathematical background, along with a series of modules to develop research skills. Both types of projects contain a literature review component.
MTE4573-Processing and engineering of metals and ceramics:MTH4200 is a level four unit in the Honours Program of the Bachelor of Science course. The unit comprises six approved lecture topics which students can choose from those offered in the Honours Handbook of the School of Mathematical Sciences. These provide advanced instruction in mathematical and statistical techniques, and support for students wishing to develop a career in research.
MTE4590-Modelling of materials:Elliptic and Parabolic partial differential equations. Sobolev Spaces. Weak and strong solutions. Maximum principle. Comparison principle. Viscosity solutions. Stochastic control theory. The dynamic programing principle. Feynmann-Kac representation formulas.
MTE4592-Advanced ceramics and applications:Variations and quadratic variation of functions. Review of integration and probability. Brownian motion. Ito integrals and Ito's formula. Stochastic differential equations and diffusions. Calculation of expectations and PDE's, Feynman-Kac formula. Martingales and semimartingales. Change of probability measure and Girsanov theorem. Fundamental theorems of asset pricing. Change of numeraire. Application to options.
MTE4593-Materials and sustainability:Doob's convergence theorem. Optional sampling theorem. Discrete Stochastic integral. Martingale inequalities such as Doob and Burkholder-Davis-Gundy inequalities. Bucy-Kalman filter. Applications to finance. Option pricing - discrete Black-Scholes formula. Control theory.
MTE4594-Engineering alloy design, processing and selection:Homogeneous Markov chains in finite and countable state space. Foster-Lyapunov criterion for recurrence and transience. Random walks in one and more dimensions. Polya theorem. Limit theorems: law of iterated logarithms, functional central limit theorem. Connections with the Brownian motion and the heat equation. Applications of random walks to finance and insurance.
MTE4595-Corrosion mechanisms and protection methods:Introduction to options. The binomial model. The Black-Scholes model. Partial differential equations. Black-Scholes formulae. American options. Exotic options. Basic concepts of risk management. Multivariate models. Copulas and dependence. Aggregate risk. Extreme value theory. Credit risk models and insurance analytics.
MTE4596-Biomaterials 2:Interest rate curves. Zero-coupon bonds, spot and forward interest rates. Interest rate derivatives. Stochastic differential equations. Change of measures. No arbitrage pricing and change of numeraire. One-factor short rate models, including Vasicek, Hull and White, CIR and affine models. Two-factor short rate models. The HJM framework and models for forward rates. LIBOR models. Pricing of interest rate derivatives: swaps, caps and swaptions.
MTE4597-Engineering with nanomaterials:Introduction to computational methods in finance. Partial differential equations. Numerical solutions of partial differential equations using finite-difference techniques, and the pricing of European options. Implicit, explicit and Crank-Nicolson schemes. Convergence and stability. Numerical solutions of free-boundary value problems and the pricing of American options. The Black-Scholes and Heston stochastic volatility models. Risk-neutral valuation. Tree methods. Introduction to Monte Carlo methods. Euler and Milstein discretization schemes. Variance reduction techniques. Monte Carlo methods for multi-dimensional problems.
MTE4598-Electron microscopy:Bayesian inference. Linear Gaussian models. Kalman filter. Maximum likelihood. Fischer information. Cramer-Rao bound. Supervised classification. Tree based methods. Support vector machines. Introduction to R.
MTE5503-Composites and multiphase polymers:Efficient market hypothesis. Extreme events. Volatility clustering. Poisson process. Hawke's process. Correlation estimators. Hayashi-Yoshida estimator. Lead-lag. Market impact. Optimal execution. Agent models.
MTE5596-Biomaterials:This unit is designed to provide students with industry research experience and project-based learning. Through the research project, students will be able to apply financial thinking, modelling techniques and mathematical and statistical skills acquired throughout the Masters programme to solve real-life problems in finance and related areas. In the process they will acquire invaluable experience and knowledge working either independently or collaboratively on an applicable industry project. Students must complete a 12 week industry research project at the Masters level.
MTE5881-Advanced materials characterisation and applied crystallography:This unit is designed to provide students with industry research experience and project-based learning. Through the research project, students will be able to apply financial thinking, modelling techniques and mathematical and statistical skills acquired throughout the Masters programme to solve real-life problems in finance and related areas. In the process they will acquire invaluable experience and knowledge working either independently or collaboratively on an applicable industry project. Students must complete a six week industry research project (or 12 weeks if part time) at the Masters level.
MTE5882-Advanced polymeric materials:This unit is designed to provide students with industry experience and work-based learning. Through the placement, students will be able to apply financial thinking, modelling techniques and mathematical and statistical skills acquired throughout the Masters programme to solve real-life problems in finance and related areas. In the process they will acquire invaluable experience and knowledge on the functioning of a finance-related workplace. Students must complete at least 360 hours of placement in a relevant industry.
MTE5883-Environmental durability and protection of metals and engineering materials:This unit is designed to provide students with industry experience and work-based learning. Through the placement, students will be able to apply financial thinking, modelling techniques and mathematical and statistical skills acquired throughout the Masters programme to solve real-life problems in finance and related areas. In the process they will acquire invaluable experience and knowledge on the functioning of a finance-related workplace. Students must complete at least 180 hours of placement in a relevant industry.
MTH3320-Computational linear algebra:This unit identifies links between technique and expression which allows the student to find coherence of intention, style and meaning. The purpose is to develop a self-assuring vision which directs practice to technical and poetic excellence, with iconography of an appropriately meaningful kind. The unit provides for the student to propose his or her directions at all stages, with the critical guidance of the lecturer.
MTH3330-Optimisation and operations research:This unit further pursues links between technique and subject matter in a quest to find-through practice-coherence of intention, style and meaning. It deals with matters of taste and appreciation, reaching to delicate issues in the critique of style and iconography, and arriving at intuitions of the poetic. The unit provides for the student to propose his or her directions at all stages, with the critical guidance of the lecturer.
MTH3360-Fluid dynamics:This unit is intended to position the student's practice with respect to past and current practices and to encourage a philosophical expression of his or her work. Through a process of challenge and debate, the unit leads the candidate to clarify his or her proposal for the visual work of the Studio Discipline unit and to develop it alongside the studio practice as a reflection of the visual work. The unit is designed to integrate the theoretical and the practical; it asks candidates to express their ambitions in studio in a critical context and, through discursive challenge, strengthens the intuitive energies of studio practice.
MTH3401-Special topics in mathematics 1:The unit centres on the visual production of the candidates, and enables the critical examination, appraisal and defence of (a) the studio work, (b) its relation to the terms of the proposal and (c) its relation to the concept of originality or visual research. Discussions identify relationships between intuitive, artistic intentions and the principles of objectivity which inform investigative method in non-artistic disciplines. The result of this unit is a 'paper', arguing for either the rightness of the proposal, its need for change, the rightness of the artistic means for achieving it or the need for revision of those means. The paper is not an exegetical document of the visual work: rather, it assists in documenting the rationale for the visual work against a backdrop of critical challenge.
MTH3402-Special topics in mathematics 2:The MVA studio project is non-prescriptive in the terms of its content but, in centring on a single project or body of work, it is strongly oriented toward the development of independence in creative work. The unit concentrates on the integrity of the visual project, encouraging students to refine the relationship between representational methods and subject matter, a quest for coherence of intention, style and meaning. The intention is to develop a level of independence and ability autonomously and confidently to determine artistic directions.
MTH4010-Mathematics honours topic A:This clinical unit focuses on the preparation of the student for the transition to interprofessional practice as a multi-skilled health professional. The unit will examine the management of self and others, organizational structures within healthcare practice, evaluation of leadership teamwork, risk management and multidisciplinary decision making. Students will participate in a range of learning experiences designed to enhance their appreciation of health professionals' roles and teamwork skills. Specific clinical contexts of learning will be acute care emergencies, mental health emergencies and disaster management.
MTH4020-Mathematics honours topic B:This unit continues to develop the student's ability to provide health care in community based emergency health and hospital settings. It builds on the model of clinical competence and the context of clinical practice commenced in previous years of this course. It provides context to support the clinical theory unit concurrently undertaken in this semester, BEH3032. Supervised clinical experience is undertaken in ambulance and community based health settings. Hospital experience involves critical care areas, operating theatre, and emergency department.
MTH4030-Mathematics honours topic C:This introductory unit will introduce the student to the ANMC competency domain of collaborative and therapeutic practice. Content in this unit will compliment theory and skills taught in other units in semester one of the course. Students will be provided the opportunity to explore important professional aspects of being a nurse or midwife and the significance of fitness for practice. Students will: + describe the basic psychological process of human behaviour; + demonstrate effective communication with individuals and groups and other members of the healthcare team; + discuss how evidence is translated into clinical practice.
MTH4040-Mathematics honours topic D:This unit introduces students to the beginning knowledge and skills of the professional registered nurse. Nursing and Midwifery Board of Australia (NMBA) Registered nurse standards for practice are utilised as a framework to guide students in relation to person-centred care, patient safety, cultural and contextual competence and developing practice. This unit includes the theoretical and practical foundations of clinical practice and processes in the clinical environment. In this unit you learn how to individualise care and undertake core clinical skills that are fundamental in the care of individuals and groups. It is here you begin to explore the art and science that underpins the practice of a professional registered nurse.
MTH4100-Mathematics research studies:This unit has been developed through a partnership between the School of Nursing and Midwifery and the Gukwonderuk Indigenous Engagement Unit (GIEU). Delivery of effective, high standard health services to Indigenous people is one of the enduring challenges facing a variety of organisations and providers. This unit is designed for novice learners and strengthens practical skills required for implementing Indigenous equity in healthcare. It allows students to reflect on their current understandings of Indigenous Australian peoples, equity and diversity and build further knowledge and skills. Learning objective from the novice level of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Curriculum Framework have been utilised in the design of the curriculum.
MTH4200-Advanced studies in mathematics:This unit examines fundamental knowledge and skills in preparation for the care of individuals. Emphasis is placed on systematic health assessment and the development and evaluation of appropriate person-centred care, incorporating the legal and ethical dimensions of care. The clinical practise experience undertaken in this unit is an integral component of the development of the nurse/midwife and concentrates on the practical application of theoretical principles explored in this unit.
MTH5112-Partial differential equations in finance:Leadership is fundamental to the nature of nursing and midwifery; in the formation of safe practice, interdisciplinary relationships, education, research and health care delivery. In this unit, nursing leadership is explored by examining the historical nature of leadership in nursing/midwifery. The social construct of leadership will be investigated in the context of interpersonal organisational health care relationships and clinical practice. A major feature of the unit is an exploration of the professional values and ethics that form the basis of decision making in health care systems and nursing/midwifery practice.
MTH5210-Stochastic calculus and mathematical finance:This unit introduces learners to the process of self-reflection, clinical communication, questioning and critical thinking in preparation for problem recognition, problem solving and maintaining personal well-being. Research, academic writing skills and knowledge of evidence-based professional practice equip the learner as a scholar and a nurse/midwife. The concepts of person-centredness (nursing) and woman-centredness (midwifery) are explored from the perspective of self, examining personal values, sets of beliefs, cultural perspectives, attitudes toward others, and factors that influence health across the lifespan.
MTH5220-The theory of martingales in discrete time:This unit introduces the student to the concepts of health and illness as they relate to health indicators for vulnerable groups, and local and global healthcare. The influence of the social determinants of health will be explored as they impact on the health and personal wellbeing of individuals. This unit enables the student to develop a conceptual understanding of health and illness, global and population health, environmental impacts on the health of people, health promotion and health screening.
MTH5230-Markov chains and random walks:This unit introduces students to the human body as it relates to health and key nursing practice concepts. An understanding of the structure and function of the body will enable students to undertake systematic assessment of the physiological and psychosocial aspects of a person related to factors that affect health across the lifespan. Students will apply their knowledge of cells and tissues, the nervous system including the brain, spinal cord, autonomic nervous system and the heart and circulatory system, and the respiratory system to infection control, nutrition, vital signs, ECG, oxygen delivery, and medication administration. The unit provides students with the opportunity to question the evidence for fundamental nursing interventions, demonstrate a systematic and holistic approach to assessment and interpretation of findings. In a simulated environment, students will practice patient assessment, urinalysis, blood glucose measurement, and safe administration of oral medications, and use of oxygen delivery devices.
MTH5510-The mathematics of finance: From derivatives to risk:This unit focuses in developing knowledge related to evidence-based professional practice shared in nursing and midwifery. The importance of leadership in healthcare and the role of leaders for the provision of safe and effective person-centered care (nursing) or woman-centered care (midwifery) will be explored. Issues of privacy, confidentiality and respect for others will be tested in simulated healthcare environments. Students will also be introduced to the standards of practice for nurses, midwives and mental health that regulate the professional roles and responsibilities as they pertain to the Australian healthcare system. Emphasis is placed on the legal and ethical requirements that underpin practice as registered nurses and midwives, including Australian Nursing & Midwifery Accreditation Council (ANMAC), Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency (AHPRA), and the concept of 'fitness to practice'.
MTH5520-Interest rate modelling:This unit builds upon NUR1112 and introduces students to the pathophysiological changes that can impact human health and the working of the human body across the lifespan. Students will be expected to use their knowledge of the structure and function of the healthy body to study the pathophysiological and psychosocial changes associated with various body systems. The safe pharmacological management of patients with conditions and illnesses associated with these systems is a key focus of this unit. The unit provides students with the opportunity to question the evidence for fundamental nursing interventions and demonstrate a systematic and holistic approach to assessment and interpretation of findings. In a preclinical simulated environment, students will practice patient assessment related to the conditions and illnesses of designated body systems, safe parenteral injection of medications, management of fluids and electrolytes (including IV), venepuncture, IDC insertion and management, wound management, stoma care and pressure injury surveillance.
MTH5530-Computational methods in finance:The aim of this unit is to introduce nursing and midwifery students to the legal system including the processes and institutions that impact on professional practice. Students will identify the law as it relates to the delivery of health services including professional standards and regulation, complaint mechanisms and relevant legal forums including the coroner's court. Students will be encouraged to explore the health professional's relationship and obligations owed to patients, patient families and professional colleagues in the various health care environments.
MTH5540-Statistical learning in finance:This unit aims to explore the connection between the science of public health and health outcomes of a diverse range of individuals and populations. Current research evidence incorporating epidemiology and the social determinants of health will be introduced. The unit will focus on vulnerable populations, infectious disease, population screening, health care systems, health promotion, global health and climate change, equipping students with cultural competence and rudimentary knowledge and skills in population health.
MTH5550-Market microstructure:This elective unit provides students with an introduction to maternity and paediatric nursing. Students will explore the roles and responsibilities of the nurse in supporting care of women and their families throughout the childbearing process. Emphasis is on normal pregnancy and postpartum care of mother and baby. Students will be introduced to concepts related to paediatric nursing.
MTH5810-Industry research project:An important component of our health system is the services provided for those living with terminal illness. The health needs of these individuals are diverse and often change over time. An interdisciplinary approach will be used to engage students in building fundamental knowledge and skill for the provision of palliative care in any setting. This unit aims to develop the abilities of health professionals and other graduates to care for persons with life limiting illness, by improving awareness of the principles and values underpinning palliative care, communication, clinical assessment and interventions and optimizing function in palliative care and coping with dying and bereavement. This unit is a prerequisite for NUR3007 'Clinical experience in the palliative approach'.
MTH5820-Minor industry research project:This unit introduces concepts of medical and surgical nursing and pharmacology, across the lifespan. A case based approach is used to facilitate the integration and application of pharmacological principles and associated drug groups underpinned by human pathophysiology related to the body system under review. Systems studied include respiratory, cardiovascular, renal and endocrine. The topics of pain management, wound assessment and clinical assessment skills introduced in year one will be further developed as each system is studied. Clinical simulation exercises will be utilised in laboratory sessions to develop and enhance the acquisition of clinical skills. The clinical practicum component provides opportunities to develop competency to a year two (2) level in a range of skills learnt in the simulated laboratory environment
MTH5830-Industry placement:This unit provides the opportunity for the student to develop fundamental knowledge, skills and attitudes relevant to the restoration and maintenance of optimal mental health. Students will be expected to assess people with mental health problems and to identify, prioritise and implement appropriate evidence based interventions and management strategies.
MTH5840-Minor industry placement:This unit introduces nursing students and other professionals to the key principles, philosophies and frameworks that guide health promotion practice in Australia and internationally. Students will examine concepts and theories of health promotion and the primary health care sector, including medical, behavioural and socio-environmental approaches to health care. Health promotion is underpinned by a philosophy of health for all; therefore concepts such as partnership development, community participation, health equity, social justice, capacity building and advocacy are described to empower nurses and other professionals with the means to plan, implement and evaluate health promotion practice across all sectors of the Australian health care system. By the end of this unit, students will have examined and described these key concepts of health promotion in relation to the Australian context.
MTHGC1020-Analysis of change:This unit introduces the concept of working with families from a strengths-based framework. The concept of family strengths has been studied for several decades and describes a family that functions optimally in support of the individual members. When nurses and other professionals use a family strengths theoretical framework in their daily practice, they contribute to providing health care that focuses on the whole rather than only the individual and begin to support families when accessing health care. A healthy family may be stronger in one area than another, and strengths may overlap with each other. It is well known that the family environment may have a positive or a negative effect on individuals in the family, depending on the family's values, beliefs, and ability to manage change. The composition and structure of contemporary families are wide-ranging, and include families from varying cultures, with composition including single and extended families, and families at differing socioeconomic levels. This unit aims to bridge the gap in theoretical content related to family care across the lifespan so that nurses and other professionals can explore the factors that shape their capacity to develop caring relationships with individuals, families, groups, populations, and communities.
MTHGC1030-Techniques for modelling:Using a lifespan approach this unit builds on semester one learning in NUR2106 and further explores the integration and application of pharmacological principles and associated drug groups underpinned by human pathophysiology related to the body system under review. There will be an emphasis on the general paediatric population and commonly presenting conditions that relate specifically to this group. Other systems that will be studied include musculoskeletal, gastroenterological, haematological, neurological and vascular conditions. Clinical simulation exercises will be utilised in laboratory sessions to develop and enhance the acquisition of clinical skills. The clinical practicum component provides opportunities to develop competency to a second year level in a range of skills learnt in the simulated laboratory environment.
MTHHONS-Final grade Mathematics honours:This Mental Health Nursing unit draws upon student's prior theoretical knowledge, skills and attitudes from NUR2107. This unit will focus upon professional issues including self care, clinical supervision; utilising evidence based nursing interventions and preparation for clinical practice. This unit has a 4 week clinical component, where students will apply evidence based nursing care and interventions with mentally ill consumers and their carers. Theoretical principles and standards of practice are derived from the ANMC National Competency Standards for the Registered Nurse, the ACMHN Standards of Practice for Australian Mental Health Nurses, current evidenced based care and associated legislation.
PHR1021-How Medicines Work I:Cardiac disease is increasing in prevalence and creates a number of perioperative diagnostic and management dilemmas. This unit aims to consolidate and extend the student's knowledge of the pathophysiology of cardiac disease, and review the perioperative interventions that can be applied to improve patient outcome.
PHR1022-How Medicines Work II:The focus of this unit is for the participant to obtain the necessary knowledge and skills in managing the trauma patient in the acute setting, as well as the chronic patient with an acute exacerbation of their disease. It will focus on strategies to improve the outcome for these patients. Participants will gain practical knowledge of ventilation strategies and circulatory support strategies.
PHR1031-How the Body Works:Students will gain knowledge of the pathogenesis and perioperative management of patients with endocrine, renal, hepatic, gastrointestinal and coagulation dysfunction. In addition, students will learn to apply basic analgesic principles to the management of patients with perioperative pain problems.
PHR2011-Professional Practice III:Students will gain knowledge of the pathogenesis and perioperative management of patients with infectious diseases, neurological and neuromuscular disorders, high risk obstetrics and psychiatric disorders. In addition, students will learn to identify the impact of ageing and geriatric care and optimize the management of these patients in the perioperative period.
PHS1002-Physics for engineering:This unit introduces students to the range of practical, fiscal, operational and legislated requirements for operation as a competent professional practitioner of interior architecture. Site visits relevant to the projects are undertaken.
PHS1011-Classical physics and relativity:This unit will clarify the professional obligations required of graphic and multimedia designers. It will also outline the basic business activity requirements of practitioners in these areas. The unit will include project management processes from small singular undertakings to large cross disciplinary projects; professional writing skills relevant to the discipline areas; OHSE obligations and workplace safety, and sound business practice. Students will also be introduced to the professional bodies that can assist with future business activities.
PHS1022-Fields and quantum physics:Research methods and their application. Industrial design (research) issues: users, clients, technology, production and environmental issues. Project management issues: contract law and contract administration, authority approvals, cost planning, staff resource allocation, costing and budget planning. Computer-based project schedules and resource allocation, time schedules and critical path networks for sub-projects with multi-activities.
PHS1031-Physics for the living world:This subject investigates project and research management strategies. Topics include research methods and their application, the range of interior architecture (research) issues, users, clients, technology, regulations, sites, environment and ecology/heritage. The range of project management issues includes: contracts, contract law, contract administration, tendering and negotiation, planning authority approvals, cost planning, staff resources allocation, costing, and budget planning. Computer-based construction schedules and resource allocation, time schedules, and critical path networks for sub-projects with multi-activites, are also considered.
PHS1042-Physics, energy and the environment:A series of lectures covers the following topics: professional associations, folio preparation, fees and commissions, gallery management, the function and roles of public, private and artist run galleries, catalogue publication, curating, conservation, art criticism and intellectual property, copyright and taxation, promotion, publicity and press releases in addition to the documentation of work. Tutorials explore these options through practical exercises and case studies.
PHS1080-Foundation physics:This unit aims to give students an outline of the basic business skills which are needed to maintain a career in the multimedia industry, and to manage and run a multimedia design business. It provides students with a broad overview of the nature of the multimedia industry and the sort of companies which occupy it. It teaches students about project planning and management in relation to multimedia design practice.
PHS1711-Applied physics:This unit investigates project and design research management strategies. Topics include research methods and their application, design (research) criteria, client's intentions, market identification and user needs, manufacturing and environmental issues. Management issues, contracts - contract law, planning and administration, statutory authority approvals, cost planning, staff resource allocation, and budget planning.
PHS1731-Physics for engineering:The unit provides a greater understanding of design studio operation and management. Topics centre around the operation of a small business (design studio) and include setting a foundation for the business (goals and objectives), marketing principles for gaining clients, client relationship management, project management, costing projects, writing fee proposals, job cost reconciliation, establishing a schedule of fees, overview of tax systems and company structures (incorporated companies, sole trader, GST and other tax obligations) and understanding resourcing for small business. The perspective will be on professional practice and conduct.
PHS2061-Quantum and thermal physics:Using investigative processes and industry case studies students will learn the role of management and associated strategic processes integral to a successful and sustainable design practice. Students will acquire skills in entrepreneurship, business negotiation, teamwork, written and verbal communication, budgeting, market identification and user needs, start-up cultures and project management across a broad range of design undertakings that includes complex multidisciplinary projects.
PHY2032-Endocrine control systems:This is a studio based unit, where students will be presented with projects introducing etching and relief printmaking processes.The unit provides students with the means to achieve an initial level of technical competence in these processes, and a consideration of their works in the context of contemporary visual art.
PHY2042-Body systems physiology:This unit introduces students to the practice and theory of printmedia as a means of contemporary creative expression. It focuses on raising awareness of and providing the means to achieve an initial level of competence within the printmedia discipline, while imparting a sound conceptual and technical basis for continuing study in that discipline. The safe handling of materials and equipment is emphasised as an essential part of all studio practice.
PHY2810-Physiology of human body systems:This unit gives students the opportunity to further develop the ideas concepts, materials and processes begun in the corresponding Printmedia 1A unit. Students will begin to establish an individual and self directed practice within the broad parameters of the printmedia discipline. Methods and materials specific to the printmedia studio discipline will be demonstrated and practiced. Students will be encouraged to develop appropriate links between these methods and other means of creative self-expression. Set projects will require students to develop technical skills hand in hand with their understanding of concepts of current relevance.
PHY2820-Physiology of human health:This unit extends the introduction to the practice and theory of printmedia as a means of contemporary creative expression. It adds to the focus on raising awareness of and providing the means to achieve an initial level of competence within the printmedia discipline, while imparting a sound conceptual and technical basis for continuing study in that discipline. The safe handling of materials and equipment is emphasised as an essential part of all studio practice.
PHY3012-Integrative neuroscience:This unit gives students the opportunity to further develop the ideas concepts, materials and processes begun in Printmedia 2A units. Students will extend the establishment of an individual and self directed practice within the broad parameters of the printmedia discipline. Methods and materials specific to the printmedia discipline will be demonstrated and practiced. Students will be encouraged to develop further appropriate links between these methods and other means of creative self-expression. Set projects will require students to develop technical skills hand in hand with their understanding of concepts of current relevance.
PHY3072-Exercise physiology and metabolism:This unit examines the artist's book, considering all aspects of the production and design of the book. Students will consider the book as an object or sculptural form. Students will investigate the principles of typography and book design, and learn how to set and print type using letterpress methods. Students will consider the relationship of image and text, the question of sequence in the structure of the book, the relationship of form and content. The unit will consider the presentation and distribution of the artist's book looking at both historical and contemporary examples. Occupational health and safety instruction relevant to the Artists' Books studio will be addressed.
PHY3102-Nutrition, metabolism and body weight:This is a studio based unit, where students will be presented with projects involving screenprinting processes.The unit provides students with the means to apply their technical competence in printmaking to these new processes, and to critically evaluate their works in the context of contemporary visual art.
PHY3111-Sensory and cognitive neuroscience:This Printmedia 3A unit provides a rigorous program to broaden students' awareness of concepts and techniques across a range of approaches, and encourages them to seek appropriate solutions. Continued research and investigation of materials and processes fosters the acquisition of technical language, and influences appropriate choices to realise concepts within the context of a developing personal visual language. Set projects still occur but the emphasis is on self-motivated approaches. Teaching methods therefore tend to concentrate on individual tuition and group critique.
PHY3171-Clinical and experimental cardiovascular physiology:In the Printmedia 4A unit students become increasingly responsible for the delivery of their major study program, with emphasis placed on independent investigation, and the development of the creative and expressive potential inherent in students' work. This, combined with staff consultation, starts to determine students' focuses for future printmedia studio work. The emphasis shifts away from set projects towards self-motivated practice and research through which students articulate their conceptual and expressive strengths. Studio practice is still exploratory but with better grasp of theoretical issues relevant to students' practices.
PHY3181-Hormones and reproduction:This Printmedia 3B unit extends the rigorous program to broaden students' awareness of concepts and techniques across a range of approaches, and further encourage them to seek appropriate solutions. Continued research and investigation of materials and processes fosters the acquisition of technical language, and influences appropriate choices to realise concepts within the context of a developing personal visual language. The emphasis is more on self-motivated approaches than on set projects. Teaching methods therefore tend to concentrate on individual tuition and group critique.
PHY3990-Action in physiology research project:In this Printmedia 4B unit students become more responsible for the delivery of their major study program, with emphasis placed on increasingly independent investigation, and the further development of the creative and expressive potential inherent in students' work. This, combined with staff consultation, continues to determine students' focuses for future Printmedia studio work. Self-motivated practice and research through which students articulate their conceptual and expressive strengths is increasingly utilised. Studio practice is less exploratory and with better grasp of theoretical issues relevant to students' practices.
PHYHONS-Final grade Physiology honours:This unit builds on knowledge acquired in PRM1511, and offers further development and refinement of conceptual and practical skills acquired in PRM1511 Artists' Books. The unit investigates the form of the book, considering the role of the artist book as a mode of distribution, and the roles of text, image, sequence and temporality in the artist book. It provides students with the means to extend already established skills in a variety of typesetting and printmedia processes, and a consideration of their works in the context of contemporary visual art.
PLT230-Future Studies:Research in pharmaceutics. This unit is used by the faculty and/or Monash Graduate Education to enrol students undertaking Higher Degrees by Research. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES.
PLT330-Future Studies:Research in pharmacy practice. This unit is used by the faculty and/or Monash Graduate Education to enrol students undertaking Higher Degrees by Research. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES.
PRU0001-Research in medicinal chemistry:The central theme of this unit is applied psychology focused at the individual, group and organisational levels. At the individual level the use of vocational assessment inventories to determine career choice and selection will be examined. Theories of leadership, power, motivation, job satisfaction, morale and the processes involved in training personnel will be examined at the group level. At the organisational level topics include systems theory, organisational culture, conflict and change. Compulsory attendance at weekend schools is required for all off-campus students.
PSC2012-Molecular pharmacology:This unit covers all important aspects of abnormal behaviour: historical influences, theory, assessment, specific psychopathologies, treatment methods, and legal issues. Both the scientific and professional aspects of abnormal psychology are presented. Efforts will be made to give students the broadest possible view of abnormal behaviour by studying different theoretical perspectives.
PSC2021-Structural organic chemistry:This unit introduces the principles and processes of test development and concepts of test reliability and validity. Some widely used standardised psychology tests will be described. The unit also covers theories of ability and how our thinking about human abilities is influenced by our cultural framework. Other major themes include methods for establishing the relative influence of heredity and environment on human intelligence, and the role of psychological testing in clinical practice, educational settings, and corporate organisations. A basic knowledge of the ethical, legal and professional responsibilities of psychologists will be provided with the opportunity for students to apply the Code of Ethics to real life ethical scenarios.
PSC2031-Analytical methods:The first half of this unit covers sensory, the first half of this unit covers sensory processes involved in vision, audition and speech perception. Coding mechanisms common to different modalities are emphasised to help students understand general mechanisms of sensory coding and perceptual processing. The second half encompasses the acquisition, organisation, and retrieval of knowledge and aims to cover cognitive psychology more generally. It includes emphasis on contemporary research techniques, cognitive architecture, attentional processes, models of learning and memory, mental imagery, language and higher-order thinking.
PSC2041-Biopharmaceutics:In this unit, students will continue their training in research via three components. First, research design and analysis topics presented in first and second year will be explored at a more advanced theoretical level. The major focus of this component will be analysis of variance and multiple regression. Second, students will develop experience performing statistical analyses using a statistical software package. Finally, students will continue their training in research design and analysis by undertaking a group-based research project under the supervision of a member of staff.
PSC2122-Synthetic organic chemistry:Central theme: introduction to counselling theory, interventions and research. Themes to be covered include theories of counselling, evaluation of counselling, research designs and interventions, ethical decision making in counselling psychology.
PSC2132-Introduction to spectroscopy:This unit will examine the range of psychological factors influencing people's health behaviour, their susceptibility and reactions to illness states and responses to medical treatment. Health psychology encompasses the application of psychological theories to the study of the maintenance and promotion of health, the prevention of illness and the dysfunction and the rehabilitation of those already disabled. This unit is designed to equip students with the knowledge and skills needed to evaluate the effects of psychological variables on health and illness behaviour, the prevention of illness and adjustment to illness and dysfunction.
PSC2142-Computational chemistry:This unit presents contemporary theories and methods in social psychology. A social cognitive perspective is used to examine issues such as evolutionary social psychology, self-concepts, attitudes, counterfactual thinking, self-deception and group behaviour. Particular emphasis is placed upon the application of social psychological theories to issues such as psychological health, social problems such as racism, political processes, advertising and health promotion.
PSC2222-Formulation chemistry:This unit aims to familiarise students with the assumptions and principles upon which the hypotheses about brain-behaviour relationships are based in the discipline of clinical neuropsychology. A considerable emphasis is also placed on providing a thorough understanding of underlying brain pathology in a range of neurodevelopmental disorders (eg autism and Tourette's syndrome) and neurodegenerative disorders (e.g. Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases), as well as their neuropsychological consequences. Both developmental and neurodegenerative disorders will be covered in terms of prevalence, neuropsychological manifestations, neuropathology, assessment techniques and potential treatments. Key skills and techniques relevant to the practice of clinical neuropsychology will also be explored such as the assessment of cognitive functioning and the diagnosis of neuropsychological conditions.
PSC2232-Colloid chemistry:The unit gives students an overview of issues related to addictive behaviours. While the primary emphasis is on substance use, behavioural addictions such as gambling are also addressed. Students are introduced to problems in defining addiction and will be introduced to a range of theories which attempt to explain addictive behaviours. Issues relating to treatment of addictive behaviours will be introduced including prevention of addictive behaviours, assessment and various treatment options available. Students will be introduced to drug policy options in Australia and around the world.
PSC2322-Molecular cell biology:Positive psychology focuses on promoting optimal human functioning. Theoretical perspectives will be examined to demonstrate the impact of positive conditions in achieving desirable outcomes. Information concerning the latest evidence-based interventions about what makes people happy and how happiness is defined and measured will be presented. The relevance of positive psychology in a range of contexts and across the life span will be explored. Numerous and varied learning approaches such as debates, case studies, role plays, watching videos, keeping journals and research activities will be undertaken. This unit will be based on evidence-based knowledge and practice and will also involve an experiential component to facilitate learning.
PSC2332-Diseased-focused pharmacology - Peripheral:The Neuroscience of Cognition and Behavior focuses on the neurobiological mechanisms responsible for human cognition and behavior, with a particular focus on understanding leading methodology and technologies employed in brain-behaviour relationships. By exploring brain-behaviour interactions through an in-depth examination of a selection of cognitive abilities and behaviours, this unit will guide students to establish an understanding of the mechanisms behind memory processes, sleep, perception and other fundamental human behaviours. Technologies utilized by neuroscientists, such as functional magnetic resonance imaging, electroencephalography, and eye tracking will be considered during the course of this unit.
PSC3041-Applied analytical methods:The neuronal basis of consciousness focuses on the empirical neuroscientific studies of consciousness. In particular, we will focus on the neuronal correlates of visual consciousness. The unit will equip the students with necessary knowledge to think about the problem of consciousness from the neuroscientific point of views; anatomy and physiology of the primate visual system, the relationship between attention and consciousness, and decision-making and freewill and its modulation by neuromodulatory drugs.
PSC3111-Molecular basis of drug action:Computational neuroscience bridges several disciplines such as neuroscience, cognitive science, psychology, electrical engineering, computer science, mathematics, and physics. This unit introduces several key concepts and techniques that are useful in understanding computational neuroscience and the applications to real experimental data. The unit will focus on theoretical aspects of commonly encountered computational problems in cognitive neuroscience (e.g. Fourier analysis and graph theory), as well as practicing modelling skills on the computer. These theoretical topics will be linked to common applications: e.g., EEG analysis, neuronal activity analysis, and brain connectivity analysis. At the end of this unit, students will have a basic set of computational skills through hands on programming that will prepare them to perform work in the field of cognitive neuroscience.
PSC3112-Drug discovery and development:Sleep and circadian rhythms are fundamental for the maintenance of general health, performance and mood. This unit will give students an understanding of the neurobiological processes that control sleep and circadian rhythms, as well as the consequences of their dysfunction. The unit will be comprised of lectures and in-person workshops. Each student will have the opportunity to attend 5 workshops over the course of the unit, with the final workshop focused on helping students complete their final assessment (attendance optional for the final workshop). The lectures will focus on both the functions of sleep and circadian rhythms and their neurobiological underpinnings in both health and disease states. Topics that will be covered will include: sleep function and neurobiology, circadian function and neurobiology, impact of sleep and circadian dysfunction on mood and cognition, sleep and metabolism, sleep disorders, and sleep and circadian interventions for optimising health and safety. At the end of the unit, students are expected to have an understanding of core concepts in the fields of sleep and circadian rhythms. This unit will provide students with a solid foundation in sleep and circadian rhythms research, a growing strength in Australia.
PSC3122-Applied Medicinal Chemistry:This unit covers all important aspects of abnormal behaviour: historical influences, theory, assessment, specific psychopathologies, treatment methods, and legal issues. Both the scientific and professional aspects of abnormal psychology are presented. Students will be provided with a broad and comprehensive review of abnormal behaviour, by studying and contrasting different theoretical perspectives.
PSC3131-Analysis of drug-receptor interactions:Testing and assessment is a major component of psychological research and practice. This unit introduces the principles and processes of test development, test administration and test interpretation. Some widely used psychological tests will be described and critiqued on a number of criteria including test reliability and validity. The unit also covers theories of ability and how our thinking about human abilities is influenced by our cultural framework. The unit will also provide students with a strong foundation in professional ethics for psychologists. Students will also gain an advanced knowledge of the ethical, legal and professional responsibilities of practising psychologists. These ethical principles will then be applied to specific ethical dilemmas and case studies.
PSC3132-Professional Experience in Medicinal Chemistry:This unit expands upon topics in research design and analysis initially presented in the foundational psychology units. Students will further develop their understanding of the research process and some of the most commonly used methods of statistical analysis using the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) software package. Specific topics covered include: parametric and nonparametric procedures to compare two or more independent or matched samples; correlation and linear regression; planned and post hoc comparison techniques; power and sample size considerations; interpretation of output; experimental, quasi-experimental, and correlational research strategies; between- and within-subjects designs; and ethics. There is a strong practical component to the unit, including authentic assessments and regular hands-on tutorial experiences, designed to advance your competency in applying a range of common research techniques and analyses.
PSC3142-Computational drug design:In this unit, students will continue their training in research via three components. First, research design and analysis topics presented in earlier units will be explored at a more advanced theoretical level. The major focus of this component will be analysis of variance and multiple regression. Second, students will develop experience performing statistical analyses using SPSS. Finally, students will continue their training in research design and analysis by undertaking a research project under the supervision of a member of staff.
PSC3211-Industrial Formulation:As a specific example of cognitive psychology, the first half of this unit covers sensory processes involved in vision, audition and speech perception. Coding mechanisms common to different modalities are emphasised to help students understand general mechanisms of sensory coding and perceptual processing. The second half of the unit encompasses the acquisition, organisation, and retrieval of knowledge and aims to cover cognitive psychology more generally. It includes emphasis on contemporary research techniques, cognitive architecture, attentional processes, models of learning and memory, mental imagery, language and higher-order thinking.
PSC3212-Product Commercialisation:The Honours year in psychology aims to increase students understanding of theoretical and methodological aspects of research, develop analytic, research and communication skills, as well as provide students with advanced knowledge in the science and practice of psychology. The Honours program meets the requirements of the Australian Psychological Society for Associate Membership. In this unit, students undertake a supervised research project that aims to provide training in both discipline specific and generic research skills and form the basis of an honours research thesis presented at the end of the year.
PSC3221-Biomolecule formulation & modified release technologies:This elective will examine selected, topical issues relating psychology to broader social, political and cultural issues. In building on the background developed in the undergraduate curriculum, the unit will seek to locate existing psychological research in a contemporary social context, exploring emerging theoretical developments and reviewing existing controversies. The overarching goal will be to build greater understanding of the range of competing explanatory hypotheses that have emerged in response to key psychological issues in the extant literature. The role psychological research and theory plays in broader society will be reflected in the choice of topics and issues canvassed in this unit. The general areas from which the specific topics may be chosen will include: population health, chronic disease, indigenous health, forensic and behavioural science, substance use, medical anthropology and psychological theory.
PSC3222-Advanced formulation and nanotechnology:Introduction to the discipline of psychology as a behavioural science. Topics include personality, the biological bases of behaviour, sensation and perception, an introduction to theories of learning and development, plus an introduction to the historical origins of the discipline. Online activities (for example interactive skills development, formative quiz presentations) and discussion forums, aim to enhance students' understanding of the lecture material and provide training in research techniques.
PSC3231-Pharmaceutical Product Manufacture:This elective unit will examine some selected, topical issues in the field of mental health and illness. It will focus on the aspects of mental health and illness that integrate traditional clinical information (e.g., symptoms, prevalence, etiology, conceptual models, etc.), neuroscience, behavioural science, and evidence-based treatment options. The broad scope of mental health and illness will be reflected in the choice of topics, and these topics may change to reflect current issues in the field. The general area from which the specific topics may be chosen might include: specific psychopathologies (e.g., depression, anxiety, addiction), trans diagnostic concerns in mental health (e.g., sleep, relationship factors), and mental health in operational settings. The unit aims for students to build an appreciation for the fact clinicians need to be informed by research ranging from basic neuroscience to clinical trials, and researchers need to be mindful of the translational potential of their work.
PSC3232-Professional Experience in Formulation Science:Introduction to the discipline of psychology as a behavioural science. Lecture topics include Social Psychology, Abnormal Psychology, Cognitive Psychology, plus an introduction to research design and analysis. Online activities and discussion forums enhance students' understanding of the lecture and assessment material and provide training in research techniques.
PSC3311-Microbiology and immunology:This elective will examine some selected, topical issues regarding developmental psychology and psychiatry. In building on the background developed in the undergraduate curriculum, the unit will focus on the aspects of developmental psychology and psychiatry that are controversial and/or for which there are currently competing explanatory hypotheses. The broad scope of developmental psychology and psychiatry will be reflected in the choice of topics, and these topics may change to reflect current issues in the field. The general area from which the specific topics may be chosen might include: neurodegenerative disorders, autism spectrum disorders, genetic disorders, and childhood trauma.
PSC3321-Disease-Focused Pharmacology CNS:Psychology is a scientific discipline which spans a diverse range of areas. This unit provides a continuation of two psychology topics that you will have learnt about in the foundational units. Developmental psychology encompasses physical, cognitive, and social-emotional changes across the life span and how these are shaped by macrosystems such as culture, and microsystems such as peers and the family. Biological psychology includes states of consciousness, mental disorders and addiction, mechanisms and disorders of learning and memory, and the regulation of emotional and motivated states. Unit activities provide further training in research techniques, report writing, oral presentations and teamwork.
PSC3322-Current aspects of cancer biology:This unit covers all important introductory aspects of counselling. Themes to be covered include theories of counselling, evaluation of how personal beliefs and values influence the counselling process and legal and ethical issues in counselling psychology. Students will be provided with a broad overview of the field of counselling psychology and will be expected to be able to compare and contrast different theoretical perspectives and reflect on how these perspectives would influence their (potential) counselling style and practice.
PSC3332-Professional Experience in Drug Discovery Biology:This unit covers the key themes of social psychology and personality. The history and the philosophy of the different schools of social psychology and personality are examined to highlight changes in our understanding of social identity, meaning and relationships. The first half of the unit will demonstrate how social psychology theories, such as behaviour in groups, aggression, attraction, dehumanisation and attitude change, are applied and critiqued in light of contemporary behaviour and new knowledge. In the second half of the unit, several different personality theories will be compared and contrasted including psychoanalytic, phenomenological, trait, and social learning approaches to personality.
PSC3432-Medicinal Chemistry pre-honours research project:This unit focuses on the neurobiological mechanisms responsible for human cognition and behaviour, with a particular focus on understanding leading methodology and technologies employed in brain-behaviour relationships. By exploring brain-behaviour interactions through an in-depth examination of a selection of cognitive abilities and behaviours, this unit will guide students to establish an understanding of the mechanisms behind cognitive control and social cognition, control of action, perception, sleep and pain. Technologies utilised by neuroscientists, such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed tomography (CT), electroencephalography (EEG), and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), will be considered during the course of this unit.
PSC3532-Formulation Science pre-honours research project:The aim of this unit is to provide students with a thorough understanding in statistical concepts to enable them to be informed in their chosen field. The unit begins with a review of univariate statistics and an introduction to the philosophy of research design and analysis. More advanced statistical techniques are then systematically introduced. There is a focus on the understanding of the issues that may arise around the choice of appropriate statistical technique and preparation of data, critiquing decisions made to assist in the interpretation of findings. The content will be set in a context of the needs of professional psychologists and researchers whose interests present unusual methodological demands, which in turn may influence choices in research approach and statistical technique.
PSC3632-Drug Discovery Biology pre-honours research project:This unit will focus on ethical, legal and professional issues related to psychological practice. Conceptual (eg theories and definitions) and practical issues (eg common ethical dilemmas and case study appraisals) will be addressed. Some of the issues to be addressed include: legislation governing psychologists, professional organisations, codes of professional conduct, and ethical issues raised by: conflicts of interest, children as clients, using psychological tests, and the provision of psychological services to a multi-cultural population, managing the suicidal client, the reporting of child abuse, and service delivery over the internet.
PSC4111-Advanced medicinal chemistry:The unit will provide students with a theoretical and practical overview of individual differences, and how these may be assessed and treated using evidence-based approaches. The course of study will include the theoretical background to the development of classes of tests, detailed examination of a range of models of ability and other individual difference issues. Test evaluation methods and a review of recent trends in test development theory will also be covered. The unit will also cover the administration, scoring, and interpretation of a range of psychological tests and classification tools in various psychological settings. An overview of evidence-based interventions for common clinical disorders will also be discussed.
PSC4112-Research in medicinal chemistry:Under the supervision of suitable academic staff, students undertake components of a research thesis within PSY4402, PSY4403 and PSY4404. The incorporation of feedback received within these units is submitted within PSY4404. This unit awards the overall research thesis grade.
PSC4211-Advanced formulation science:The aim of this unit is to provide students with a thorough understanding of statistical concepts to enable them to be informed in their chosen field. The unit begins with a review of univariate statistics and introduction to the philosophy of research design and analysis. More advanced statistical techniques are then systematically introduced. There is a focus on the understanding of the issues that may arise around the choice of appropriate statistical technique and preparation of data; critiquing decisions made to assist in the interpretation of findings. The content will be set in a context of the needs of professional psychologists and researchers whose interests present unusual methodological demands, which in turn may influence choices in research approach and statistical technique.
PSC4212-Research in formulation science:The overall GDPA research project is divided into three units, PSY4402, PSY4403 AND PSY4404, beginning with this unit, PSY4402. The collective aim of these units is to increase students' understanding of theoretical and methodological aspects of research, develop analytic, research and communication skills, as well as provide students with advanced knowledge in the science and practice of psychology. The research project meets the requirements of the Australian Psychological Society for Associate Membership. The aim of PSY4402 is to enable students to produce a high quality research project component, consisting of the production of a research report introduction/ literature review. Students will undertake a supervised research project that aims to provide training in both discipline specific and generic research skills, and form the basis of a literature review and research report presented at the end of the course. The thesis introduction/ literature review component of the research report will consist of a description of the students' project, a detailed review of the relevant literature, and a statement of the research hypotheses to be tested. Students will be provided with course materials and guidance to help them produce a high quality research proposal, source and synthesise appropriate research findings, and coherently synthesise this into a research project. The development of these skills and their application to the production of the introduction/ literature review component of the students' research project will build on their research and writing skills developed in previous courses.
PSC4311-Advanced drug discovery biology:The overall GDPA research project is divided into three units, PSY4402, PSY4403 AND PSY4404, beginning with PSY4402. The collective aim of these units is to increase students' understanding of theoretical and methodological aspects of research, develop analytic, research and communication skills, as well as provide students with advanced knowledge in the science and practice of psychology. The research project meets the requirements of the Australian Psychological Society for Associate Membership. The aim of PSY4403 is to enable students to produce a high quality research project component, consisting of the production of a research project methods section, and research project data accumulation. This unit forms part of students' undertaking of a supervised research project that aims to provide training in both discipline specific and generic research skills. The methods section of the GDPA research report will consist of a description of the methods to be used to answer the research questions, and the accumulation component of the research project will consist of accumulation of research data via the conducting of experiments, surveys, and database access. Students will be provided with course materials and guidance to help them produce high quality research methods and data accumulation research project components, and to coherently synthesise these into the overall research project. The development of these skills and their application to the production of quality research method and data accumulation components will build on students' research and writing skills developed in previous courses.
PSC4312-Research in drug discovery biology:The overall GDPA research project is divided into three units, PSY4402, PSY4403 AND PSY4404, beginning with PSY4402. The collective aim of these units is to increase students' understanding of theoretical and methodological aspects of research, develop analytic, research and communication skills, as well as provide students with advanced knowledge in the science and practice of psychology. The research project meets the requirements of the Australian Psychological Society for Associate Membership. The aim of PSY4404 is to enable students to produce high quality research project components, consisting of research report results and discussion sections. This unit forms part of students' undertaking of a supervised research project that aims to provide training in both discipline specific and generic research skills. The results component of the GDPA research report will consist of conducting and writing up of the results of statistical and other analyses of data in order to answer research questions and test research hypotheses. The discussion component of the GDPA research report will consist of relating research results and methods to the research report introduction, including the literature review and hypotheses, and discussing how the student's results have contributed to knowledge of the research area. Students will be provided with course materials and guidance to help them produce high quality results and discussion research report components, and to coherently synthesise these into the overall research project. The development of these skills and their application to the production of the quality data accumulation and results of the research project will build on students' research and writing skills developed in previous courses.
PSC4411-Advanced medicine use and safety:The unit will focus on ethical, legal and professional issues related to psychological practice. Conceptual (e.g. theories and definitions) and practical issues (e.g. common ethical dilemmas and case study appraisals) will be addressed. Some of the issues to be addressed include: legislation governing psychologists, professional organisations, codes of professional conduct, and ethical issues raised by: conflicts of interest, children as clients, using psychological tests, and the provision of psychological services to a multi-cultural population, managing the suicidal client, the reporting of child abuse, and service delivery over the internet.
PSC4412-Research in Medicine Use and Safety:This unit will provide students with a theoretical and practical overview of individual differences, and how these may be assessed and treated using evidence-based approaches. The course of study will include the theoretical background to the development of classes of tests, detailed examination of a range of models of ability and other individual difference issues. Test evaluation methods and a review of recent trends in test development theory will also be covered. The unit will also cover the administration, scoring, and interpretation of a range of psychological tests and classification tools in various psychological settings. An overview of evidence-based interventions for common clinical disorders will also be discussed.
PSS100-Introduction to Sociology:The unit will assist students to identify and enhance specific employability skills acquired throughout the undergraduate study of psychology. The unit also aims to familiarise students with the steps required to become a registered and licensed psychologist in Australia, and the various career pathways available, both specific and beyond the profession of psychology. The ways in which their knowledge and skills are relevant to other industries will also be explored.
PSS110-Introduction to Psychology 1:This elective is interdisciplinary, taking a lifespan approach to examine elements of neuroscience, developmental psychology, and mental health and illness, while also focusing on examines selected topical issues in psychology with a focus on mental health and illness. The unit focuses on aspects of mental health and illness that integrate traditional clinical information (e.g. symptoms, prevalence, aetiology), neuroscience (both neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative disorders), and evidence-based treatments. The broad scope of mental health and illness is reflected in the choice of topics, and these topics may change to reflect current issues and debate within the field. The included topics reflect specific psychopathologies (e.g. posttraumatic stress disorder), specific life stages (e.g. childhood and adolescence), broad issues in mental health that transcend specific disorders (e.g. sleep, social support), and examine mental health in numerous settings (e.g. clinical, medical, and occupational). The overall goal of the unit is for students to develop an interest in current issues in the field, while recognising that psychologists need to be informed by research in several areas (e.g. neuroscience, developmental psychology, clinical trials) while recognising the potential translational nature of their work
PSS120-Introduction to Psychology 2:This elective is multidisciplinary, addressing the full range of applications of psychological theory and evidence. The unit content is divided into 6 modules with the following themes: the mind/body and self (e.g. body modification, embodied cognition, the 'selfies' epidemic), family and relationships (e.g. step-families, same-sex families), society and culture (e.g. modern racism, psychological perspectives in terrorism, acculturation and integration within multicultural Australia), health, stress and coping (e.g. resilience, positive education, cross-cultural approaches to therapy), ePsychology (e.g. cyber-bullying, virtual reality, artificial intelligences), and psychology of work (e.g. flow, flourishing). The broad scope of psychology is reflected in the choices students will have for assessment, and these topics may change to reflect current issues and debate.
PSS202-eSociety: Sociology of the Electronic Age:This unit comprises a major research program including submission of a thesis. The thesis should embody the results of the candidate's investigation, which demonstrates independence of thought and the candidate's ability to carry out research in that discipline. Minor coursework such as a literature review and oral presentation is specified by the enrolling department.
PSS205-Ethnicity Migration and Multiculturalism:Students will undertake honours level coursework in their relevant discipline, to be advised to the student by the department/school honours coordinator.
PSS210-Psychology of Wellbeing:Students will undertake honours level coursework in their relevant discipline, to be advised to the student by the department/school honours coordinator.
PSY140-Introduction to Brain, Behaviour and Evolution:This unit investigates the technical foundations of painting, considering the role of painting as a historically rich artform in relation to other artforms and as a contemporary medium of art practice. The unit provides students with an in-depth introduction to skills in a variety of painting processes with a particular emphasis on supports, grounds, pigments, colour, mediums, and a consideration of their works in the context of contemporary visual art. Occuptional safety in the Painting Studios will also be addressed.
PSY20001-Introduction to Theories of Counselling:This unit introduces students who are not taking painting as a major study to the practice and theory of Painting as a means of contemporary creative expression. By providing the means to achieve an initial level of competence within the Painting discipline it forms a sound conceptual and technical basis for an ongoing continuing study in Painting. It also lays the groundwork for developing interdisciplinary approaches and extending the discipline of Painting into wider fields of practice.
PSY20002-Psychology of Trauma:This unit gives students who are not taking painting as a major study the opportunity to develop the practice and theory of Painting as a means of contemporary creative expression. By providing the means to increase their level of competence within the Painting discipline it forms a sound conceptual and technical basis for an ongoing continuing study in Painting. It also lays the groundwork for developing interdisciplinary approaches and extending the discipline of Painting into wider fields of practice.
PSY20003-Psychology of Adolescence:This unit introduces students to the practice and theory of painting as a means of contemporary creative expression. It focuses on raising awareness of and providing the means to achieve an initial level of competence within the painting discipline, while imparting a sound conceptual and technical basis for continuing study in that discipline. The safe handling of materials and equipment is emphasised as an essential part of all studio practice.
PSY20004-Psychology of Wellbeing:This unit gives students the opportunity to further develop the ideas concepts, materials and processes begun in the corresponding Painting 1A unit. Students will begin to establish an individual and self directed practice within the broad parameters of the painting discipline. Methods and materials specific to the painting studio discipline will be demonstrated and practiced. Students will be encouraged to develop appropriate links between these methods and other means of creative self-expression. Set projects will require students to develop technical skills hand in hand with their understanding of concepts of current relevance.
PSY20005-Sports Psychology:This unit extends the introduction to the practice and theory of painting as a means of contemporary creative expression. It adds to the focus on raising awareness of and providing the means to achieve an initial level of competence within the painting discipline, while imparting a sound conceptual and technical basis for continuing study in that discipline. The safe handling of materials and equipment is emphasised as an essential part of all studio practice.
PSY20006-Cognition and Human Performance:This unit gives students the opportunity to further develop the ideas concepts, materials and processes begun in Painting 2A units. Students will extend the establishment of an individual and self directed practice within the broad parameters of the painting discipline. Methods and materials specific to the painting discipline will be demonstrated and practiced. Students will be encouraged to develop further appropriate links between these methods and other means of creative self-expression. Set projects will require students to develop technical skills hand in hand with their understanding of concepts of current relevance.
PSY20007-Developmental Psychology:This unit gives students who are not taking painting as a major study the opportunity to continue to develop the practice and theory of Painting as a means of contemporary creative expression. By providing the means to continue to increase their level of competence within the Painting discipline it forms a sound conceptual and technical basis for an understanding of Painting as a discipline. It also lays the groundwork for developing interdisciplinary approaches and extending the discipline of Painting into wider fields of practice.
PSY2031-Developmental and biological psychology:The unit explores the rich history and practice of abstraction and the broad range of approaches to painting produced under the term 'non-objective'. The unit provides students with an in-depth engagement with a variety of non-objective painting processes as well as the theories informing their creation such as the recurring declaration of painting's demise. Students achieve a level of technical and conceptual sophistication as well as a consideration of their works in the context of contemporary visual art.
PSY2042-Personality and social psychology:This unit investigates the technical and conceptual processes of installation art deriving from the expanded field of painting and post minimalist practice. Particular attention will be paid to debates about the pictorial and the actual, site and non site and theories of the viewing subject. The unit provides students with an in-depth engagement with a variety of installation practices as well as the theories informing their history. Students achieve a level of technical and conceptual sophistication as well as a consideration of their works in the context of contemporary visual art.
PSY2051-Research design and analysis:This unit investigates the technical and conceptual processes of representational painting. The unit provides students with an in-depth engagement with skills in a variety of representational painting processes as well as the theories informing narrative, figurative and perceptual processes and their representation which are being interrogated by contemporary practice. Students achieve a level of technical and practical competence in the production of their work. The unit addresses issues of representational painting in relation to other forms of representation such as photography, film and video in the context of contemporary art.
PSY2061-Biological psychology:This unit investigates the possibilities of sound in relation to colour, narrative and materials. Hybridised methods acknowledging the interelation of the aural and the visual will be investigated in contemporary practice and through encounters with the history of sound art and performance. Particular attention will be paid to cross disciplinary aspects of sound in relation to painting. The unit engages with a variety of material and technical strategies enabling students to achieve a level of technical and conceptual sophistication as well as a consideration of their works in the context of contemporary art.
PSY2071-Developmental psychology:This unit investigates feminist and conceptual perspectives in relation to current painting and broader contemporary practices. Particular attention will be paid to the politics of the gaze, critique of conventions and hierachies and a critical assessment of the art historical cannon. The unit engages with a variety of subversive material and political strategies that articulate the position surrounding these ideas. Students achieve a level of technical and conceptual sophistication as well as a consideration of their works in the context of contemporary art.
PSY2112-Organisational psychology:This Painting 3A unit provides a rigorous program to broaden students' awareness of concepts and techniques across a range of approaches, and encourages them to seek appropriate solutions. Continued research and investigation of materials and processes fosters the acquisition of technical language, and influences appropriate choices to realise concepts within the context of a developing personal visual language. Set projects still occur but the emphasis is on self-motivated approaches. Teaching methods therefore tend to concentrate on individual tuition and group critique. Emphasis is placed on students' continued capacity to critically assess their own work as well as that of their peers.
PSY230-Introduction to Theories of Counselling:In the Painting 4A unit students become increasingly responsible for the delivery of their major study program, with emphasis placed on independent investigation, and the development of the creative and expressive potential inherent in students' work. This, combined with staff consultation, starts to determine students' focuses for future painting studio work. The emphasis shifts away from set projects towards self-motivated practice and research through which students articulate their conceptual and expressive strengths. Studio practice is still exploratory but with better grasp of theoretical issues relevant to students' practices.
PSY30001-Psychology of Health:This Painting 3B unit extends the rigorous program to broaden students' awareness of concepts and techniques across a range of approaches, and further encourage them to seek appropriate solutions. Continued research and investigation of materials and processes fosters the acquisition of technical language, and influences appropriate choices to realise concepts within the context of a developing personal visual language. The emphasis is more on self-motivated approaches than on set projects. Teaching methods therefore tend to concentrate on individual tuition and group critique. This unit continues to focus on the nexus between art making and the cultural and social contexts of art.
PSY30008-Psychology of Personality:In this Painting 4B unit students become more responsible for the delivery of their major study program, with emphasis placed on increasingly independent investigation, and the further development of the creative and expressive potential inherent in students' work. This, combined with staff consultation, continues to determine students' focuses for future painting studio work. Self-motivated practice and research through which students articulate their conceptual and expressive strengths is increasingly utilised. Studio practice is less exploratory and with better grasp of theoretical issues relevant to students' practices.
PSY30009-Social Psychology:This level 3 painting unit finely hones the skills acquired over the previous two years. At this stage of the course, students should demonstrate a high level of technical competence, facilitating work in their chosen field. Imagination combined with advanced conceptual lucidity, a prowess and innovation in material manipulation should be manifest at this stage of students' practice. Students develop an individual program in conjunction with the lecturer that reflects their personal direction and evolving painting practice. The program focuses on clear articulation of concepts.
PSY30010-Abnormal Psychology:This unit is the culmination of the Painting undergraduate program, and provides a stimulating and supportive environment. Students continue to work autonomously within an individually approved program of study as lecturers encourage the self-motivation, self-appraisal and professional responsibility required of the practising artist. A coordinator supervises the program and gives guidance as it is required and at the request of the students. Students continue to critically appraise their work and consolidate all conceptual, aesthetic and technical issues that relate to the individual direction of their Painting work.
PSY4062-Research methods and theory:PTY1011 is an integrated unit based on the five themes of the physiotherapy curriculum. + Theme 1: Personal and professional development focuses on development of personal and professional attributes that assist transition from student to physiotherapist. + Theme 2: Population, Society and Health addresses broader society and population health issues. + Theme 3: Fundamental Knowledge of Health Sciences provides the knowledge which underpins physiotherapy practice. + Theme 4: Applied practice develops clinical competencies integral to physiotherapy practice. + Theme 5: Research focuses on the ability to locate, interpret and evaluate research as a foundation for evidence based practice.
PSY4081-Perception and cognition:PTY1022 is an integrated unit based on the 5 themes of the physiotherapy curriculum. + Theme 1: Personal and Professional Development focuses on development of personal and professional attributes which assist transition from student to physiotherapist. + Theme 2: Population, Society and Health relates primarily to healthcare service delivery in the rural sector and behaviour change. + Theme 3: Fundamental Knowledge of Health Science provides the knowledge which underpins physiotherapy practice. + Theme 4: Applied practice develops clinical competencies integral to physiotherapy practice. + Theme 5: Research focuses on the ability to locate and evaluate research as a foundation for evidence based practice.
PSY4100-Psychology honours: Research project:The Honours Systematic Review unit provides students with opportunities to advance their understanding of quality research methods, to learn systematic methods for developing a focused research question, seeking relevant information, critically appraising relevant research and preparing a summary of the review findings using contemporary methods. It provides direction and guidance to honours students in developing meaningful arguments to support proposed research activities. The review will contribute 15% to the final honours grade.
PSY4110-Psychology in society:PTY2031 develops the 5 themes on which the 4 year curriculum is based. + Theme 1: Personal & Professional Development: explores effective communication with clients with cardiorespiratory conditions. + Theme 2: Population, Society & Health: explores issues relating to healthcare policy development and delivery. + Theme 3: Fundamental Knowledge of Health Science: provides the biomedical and physiotherapy knowledge that underpins physiotherapy clinical practice. + Theme 4: Applied Practice: develops clinical skills integral to physiotherapy practice in the management of cardiorespiratory clients. + Theme 5: Research: explores knowledge and skills that relate to the ability to critically evaluate research.
PSY4111-Psychology 1A:PTY2042 is an integrated unit based on the 5 themes of the physiotherapy curriculum. + Theme 1: Personal and Professional Development focuses on development of personal and professional attributes which assist transition from student to physiotherapist. + Theme 2: Population, Society and Health investigates the evolution of health promotion, its inherent values and assumptions. + Theme 3: Fundamental Knowledge of Health Science provides the knowledge which underpins physiotherapy practice. + Theme 4: Applied Practice develops clinical competencies integral to physiotherapy practice. + Theme 5: Research focuses on the ability to locate and evaluate research as a foundation for evidence based practice.
PSY4120-Mental health and illness:The Honours Research Proposal unit extends research training provided to students in the BPT by providing individualised and group supervision in developing a focused research proposal (4,500 words), applying for and obtaining ethics approval and commencing data collection. Students will have opportunities to advance their understanding of data analysis methods required to interpret data collected during the course of the proposed research, prepare and submit an application for approval to the relevant ethics committees and present their research proposal to staff and students. The research proposal will contribute 15% to the final honours grade.
PSY4122-Psychology 1B:PTY3051 continues to develop students' knowledge and skills in the five theme areas upon which the four year curriculum is based. These are: + Theme 1: Personal and Professional Development; + Theme 2: Population, Society and Health; + Theme 3: Fundamental Knowledge of Health Science; + Theme 4: Applied Practice; and + Theme 5: Research. Case based learning remains the cornerstone for integration of the different themes within the course.
PSY4130-Developmental psychology and clinical neuroscience:PTY3162 continues to develop the five themes upon which the four year curriculum is based. These are Theme 1 Personal and Professional Development; Theme 2 Population, Society and Health; Theme 3 Fundamental Knowledge of Health Science; Theme 4 Applied Practice; and Theme 5 Research. Problem based learning (PBL) and clinical practice provide the opportunities for integration of the different themes within the course. Students undertake a clinical attachment (5 weeks) during this unit, providing them the opportunity to apply integrated knowledge and skills from previous learning in the Bachelor of Physiotherapy to patient care in either an acute, subacute or community setting.
PSY4131-Developmental and biological psychology:PTY3262 continues to develop the five themes upon which the four year curriculum is based. These are Theme 1 Personal and Professional Development; Theme 2 Population, Society and Health; Theme 3 Fundamental Knowledge of Health Science; Theme 4 Applied Practice; and Theme 5 Research. Problem based learning (PBL) and clinical practice provide the opportunities for integration of the different themes within the course. Students undertake a clinical attachment (5 weeks) during this unit, providing them the opportunity to apply integrated knowledge and skills from previous learning in the Bachelor of Physiotherapy to patient care in either an acute, subacute or community setting.
PSY4140-Introduction to counselling:PTY3362 continues to develop the five themes upon which the four year curriculum is based. These are Theme 1 Personal and Professional Development; Theme 2 Population, Society and Health; Theme 3 Fundamental Knowledge of Health Science; Theme 4 Applied Practice; and Theme 5 Research. Clinical practice provides the opportunities for integration of the different themes within the course. Students undertake a clinical attachment (5 weeks) during this unit, providing them the opportunity to apply integrated knowledge and skills from previous learning in the Bachelor of Physiotherapy to patient care in acute, subacute and community settings.
PSY4151-Personality and social psychology:PTY3462 continues to develop the five themes upon which the four year curriculum is based. These are Theme 1 Personal and Professional Development; Theme 2 Population, Society and Health; Theme 3 Fundamental Knowledge of Health Science; Theme 4 Applied Practice; and Theme 5 Research. Problem based learning (PBL) and written activities provide the opportunities for integration of the different themes within the course. Students undertake a range of written assessment tasks during this unit as well as attending one post clinical campus-based week, providing them the opportunity to apply integrated knowledge and skills from previous learning in the Bachelor of Physiotherapy to patient care issues in a range of settings.
PSY4170-Neuroscience of cognition and behaviour:The 12 credit point Honours Thesis subject extends research opportunities provided to students in the Bachelor of Physiotherapy degree by providing individualised and group supervision in developing a comprehensive research report (10,000 - 12,000 words). Students will have opportunities to advance their understanding of data analysis methods required to interpret data collected during the course of the research, prepare and present their findings to staff and students and refine a report for assessment. The thesis will contribute 70% to the final honours grade.
PSY4210-Statistics and research design for professional psychology:This unit guides the development of a 4,000 - 6,000 word systematic review of the literature. It also introduces quality assessment and critical appraisal of research reports included in the review. In doing this it serves the important role of enabling learning about best practice in research design, and the relationship between research design and the trustworthiness of research conclusions. As part of this unit, students also complete on-line modules that introduce basic concepts in data reporting and analysis. Students have the option to select modules that address the type of data analysis most frequently encountered in the literature they are reviewing. Students are also supported with individualized supervision to tailor reviews to the planned research undertaken as part of "Honours Research Proposal PTY4020". Reviews are prepared using a structure that facilitates publication of the work.
PSY4220-Ethical and professional issues in psychology:This unit guides student in the development of a high quality research proposal that underpins the empirical work undertaken as an honours student. It is delivered via face to face meetings and online modules. Students have different research training needs, varying with the nature of the proposed project. Students complete a compulsory ethics module and seven of 13 optional modules that best to meet their specific research training needs.
PSY4270-Psychological assessment and intervention:This unit serves the important role of providing dedicated opportunities for students to document the research undertaken during their honours candidature. Students are supported through individualized supervision and the course coordinator to complete either a 10,000 - 12,000 word thesis or (at least 2) manuscripts in publication format.
PSY4400-Psychology research project: final grade:PTY4171 continues to develop the five themes upon which the four year curriculum is based. These are: + Theme 1: Personal and Professional Development; + Theme 2: Population, Society and Health; + Theme 3: Fundamental Knowledge of Health Science; + Theme 4: Applied Practice; and + Theme 5: Research. Delivery of physiotherapy services and ongoing case based learning provide opportunities for integration of the different themes within the course. Students undertake a clinical attachment (5 weeks) during this unit and complete self directed learning tasks, providing them the opportunity to apply integrated knowledge and skills from previous learning in the Bachelor of Physiotherapy to acute, community or subacute patient care.
PSY4401-Psychology research project: Statistics and research design for professional psychology:PTY4172 continues to develop the five themes upon which the four year curriculum is based. These are: + Theme 1: Personal and Professional Development; + Theme 2: Population, Society and Health; + Theme 3: Fundamental Knowledge of Health Science; + Theme 4: Applied Practice; and + Theme 5: Research. Delivery of physiotherapy services and ongoing case based learning provide opportunities for integration of the different themes within the course. Students undertake a clinical attachment (5 weeks) during this unit, providing them the opportunity to apply integrated knowledge and skills from previous learning in the Bachelor of Physiotherapy to acute, subacute or community patient care.
PSY4402-Psychology research project: Literature review:During this unit, students undertake a 5 week elective clinical placement. This provides the opportunity to apply and expand integrated knowledge and skills from previous learning in the Bachelor of Physiotherapy to patient care in various health care consumers in a diverse range of health care related settings. Students are expected to spend 32 hours per week during clinical education in a health service or elective placement facilities with additional self-directed study hours. Additional study time will be required for completion of self-directed assessment tasks.
PSY4403-Psychology research project: Methodology and data collection:During this unit, students undertake a clinical attachment of 2 weeks duration in the area of 'Lifespan / Community'. This provides the opportunity to apply and expand integrated knowledge and skills from previous learning in the Bachelor of Physiotherapy to patient care across the Lifespan / Community in a diverse range of health care related settings. Students are expected to spend 32 hours per week during clinical education in health service or placement facilities with additional self-directed study hours. Additional off-campus study time is allocated for completion of assignments and self-directed education tasks.
PSY4404-Psychology research project: results and discussion:PTY4283 continues to develop the five themes upon which the four-year curriculum is based. This 24 credit point, year long unit includes 2 on-campus sections and contains the majority of the non-clinical assessment throughout the final year of the Physiotherapy program. It extends students' integrated knowledge and skills into specialised areas of physiotherapy practice and includes wide-ranging content such as: Indigenous Health; preparation for graduation and entry into the workforce; the role of the clinical educator; professional issues and a reflection on personal and professional development. Unique to PTY4283 is an Interprofessional Seminar series which will take place in the final week of Semester 2, Year 4 during which students will have the opportunity to listen to presentations from multiprofessional students and will participate in peer review of these sessions.
PSY4405-Ethical and professional issues in psychology:This unit will cover an introduction to physiotherapy assessment and management options for children with a range of conditions who present to physiotherapists. Aetiology and epidemiology of examples of neurological, cardiorespiratory, musculoskeletal and complex conditions and the physiotherapy role in evaluation are described. The skills required for communication with children, families, carers and other health professionals are also considered. An emphasis on establishing competence and confidence to work autonomously whilst identifying limits to own practice is stressed. Learning will be experienced in the online classroom environment with a single face to face day at the conclusion of the unit. A selection of case studies selected from acute, subacute and community settings will be used to explore learning outcomes.
PSY4406-Psychological assessment and intervention:This unit will cover components of physiotherapy assessment and management options for children with cerebral palsy who present to physiotherapists. Aetiology and epidemiology of cerebral palsy, and the physiotherapy role in evaluation and management of children with this condition are described. An emphasis on establishing competence and confidence to work autonomously whilst identifying limits to own practice is stressed. Learning will be experienced in the online classroom environment with a single face to face day at the conclusion of the unit. A selection of case studies drawn from the acute, subacute and community settings will be used to explore learning outcomes.
PSY4407-Psychology in industry: Pathways to employment:This unit will cover components of physiotherapy assessment and management options for neonates and infants with a range of conditions who present to physiotherapists. Aetiology and epidemiology of examples of conditions experienced by neonates and infants, and the physiotherapy role in evaluation of neonates and infants are described. An emphasis on establishing competence and confidence to work autonomously whilst identifying limits to own practice is stressed. Learning will be experienced in the online classroom environment with a single face to face day at the conclusion of the unit. A selection of case studies drawn from the special care nursery, subacute and community settings will be used to explore learning outcomes.
PSY4408-Perspectives in clinical and developmental neuroscience:This unit will introduce principles underpinning physiotherapy assessment and treatment for paediatric conditions. It will cover common assessment tools, principles of family-centred practice, and introduce age-appropriate interventions for infants and children. Case-based examples will illustrate key components of paediatric physiotherapy practice and facilitate the achievement of learning objectives. Learning will be experienced in the online classroom environment.
PSY4409-21st century applications of psychology:This unit will cover components of physiotherapy assessment and management options for children of all ages with a range of complex and chronic conditions. Aetiology and epidemiology of chronic and complex conditions experienced by paediatric clients, and the physiotherapy role in evaluation are described. An emphasis on establishing competence and confidence to work autonomously whilst identifying limits to own practice is stressed. Learning will be experienced in the online classroom environment with a single face to face day at the conclusion of the unit. A selection of case studies drawn from acute, subacute and community settings will be used to explore learning outcomes.
PSY5101-Research project in psychology (part-time):This final unit will allow consolidation of advanced clinical practice. Skills in critical decision-making and clinical reasoning ability for the management of complex conditions will be emphasised. Problem solving and advanced clinical skills within the context of client or family-centred practice will be explored. Learning will be experienced in the online classroom environment with individually tailored clinical experiences.
PSY5200-Advanced studies in psychology:RAD1012 develops the scientific, professional and clinical radiographic knowledge that will be foundational to the student progresses along the Novice to Expert continuum of development. Radiographic knowledge will be extended to enable examinations of the respiratory system, shoulder and pelvic girdles, the vertebral column, the bony thorax and plain abdomen to be safely performed. Building on earlier principles of professional practice, RAD1012 will introduce the science required for more advanced radiographic equipment operation. Radiation dosimetry and safety is also studied so that competent operation and performance measurement of diagnostic ionising radiation equipment may be executed. Clinical exposure to patients under supervision will enable the student to apply these principles across the range of examinations indicated.
PSY5201-Advanced studies in psychology (part-time):A review of fundamental physics of concepts relevant to radiographic imaging. Units of measurement. Mechanics and heat. Atomic structure and electromagnetic radiation. Electricity, magnetism and electromagnetism. X-rays and their production. X-ray emission and interactions between x-rays and matter. Attenuation of x-rays and filters. Detection of X-rays. X-ray image formation. Introduction to computer-based imaging in medicine. Principles of radioactivity and nuclear transformation. Introduction to radiation therapy principles. Foundation principles of radiation protection together with statutory requirements.
PSY6102-Psychological assessment:Students will learn the principles of human biology and genetics, and the chemical, cellular and tissue organization of the human body. In addition, they will develop an understanding of the gross anatomical structure of the appendicular skeleton together with their radiographic appearances.
PSY6103-Legal and ethical principles in clinical psychology practice and research:This unit delivers the initial scientific, professional and clinical radiographic knowledge that will be foundational in subsequent Radiographic Science and Practice units as the student progresses along the Novice to Expert continuum of development. The unit introduces the student to the requisite knowledge required to perform radiographic examinations of the limbs and chest and the fundamentals of professional practice to include the behavioural sciences, communication and legally and ethically correct working practices. Clinical exposure to patients under supervision will enable the student to apply these principles across the range of examinations indicated.
PSY6104-Cognitive behaviour therapies: processes and applications:Students will develop a sound understanding of the principles of pathology, and specifically that of the respiratory and osteoskeletal systems, along with their radiographic appearances. Students will also develop a sound understanding of the structural and functional relationships of the vertebral column and the bony thorax. They will be introduced to the nervous system and the innervation of muscles together with relevant radiographic anatomy.
PSY6105-Clinical development psychology:This unit is designed to provide students with the requisite knowledge and understanding of the scientific and technological principles associated with the practice of diagnostic radiography. Students will be introduced to radiographic terminology, image critique and analysis with a particular emphasis on the axial skeleton and musculoskeletal system, the thorax, abdomen and pelvis. An introduction to the design of the modern radiologic suite and the role of medical imaging in radiation therapy will be provided. In addition, an overview of the production of the X-ray image and the safety features related to the use of radiation in a radiographic environment will be studied.
PSY6203-Recovery of function and rehabilitation after brain injury:The unit develops a student's existing knowledge of digital imaging systems, evidence based practice and research principles required for practice within the healthcare workforce of the future. The unit includes digital image processing applied to medical imaging, patient care requirements for diagnostic imaging examinations including those using contrast media, evidence based practice in diagnostic imaging and the evaluation and application of research in diagnostic imaging.
PSY6204-Clinical neuropsychology:The focus of this unit is upon mobile imaging, accident and emergency imaging, paediatrics, geriatrics and radiography of the skull including dental imaging. It also facilitates the ongoing development of broader general radiographic skills of the appendicular and axial skeleton. Additionally, the unit provides students with the essential elements of contrast and therapeutic imaging of the vascular, gastrointestinal, genito-urinary and hepato-biliary systems with the emphasis upon digital fluoroscopic systems and the professional role of the radiographer in managing these systems and implementing the procedures.
PSY6205-Introductory placement and case analysis (clinical psychology):This unit provides a basic understanding of the human body, its structure and the function of its organs in health and disease. The unit covers the cardiovascular system, respiratory system, renal system, haematopoietic system, gastrointestinal system, endocrine system and reproduction. The unit incorporates the anatomy, physiology, pathology and radiographic imaging techniques related to each system. An introduction to the pharmacological principles underlying drug action, drug absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion and the adverse reactions to contrast media complements the body systems.
PSY6206-Intermediate placement and case analysis (clinical psychology):The focus of this unit is on the structure and function of the central nervous system and the pathological basis of disease and injury affecting this system. The anatomical representation and relationships of the bones, organs, blood vessels, nerves and muscles comprising the cranium, chest, abdomen, male and female pelvis, spine, limbs and girdles in multiple planes will be demonstrated through computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance images (MRI) and digital subtraction angiographic (DSA) imaging. Organization, structure and physiology of nervous tissue, the spinal cord and its nerves and the senses will provide students with a more in-depth understanding of the common disorders affecting the central nervous system including developmental malformations, neoplasia, demyelinating and degenerative disease processes, infective processes, cerebrovascular disease and traumatic brain injury. The unit is particularly designed to prepare students for their CT studies in year three of the course.
PSY6207-Health psychology and behavioural medicine:This unit is designed to provide students with the requisite knowledge and understanding of the scientific and technological principles associated with the practice underpinning Computed Tomography (CT) imaging. It introduces students to the associated instrumentation and protocols, positioning methods and radiation protection principles related to CT. The unit will build on digital image processing introduced in RAD2001. The unit will introduce students to the variety of uses of CT in the diagnostic and therapeutic health environment. Students will develop skills in relation to image critique and analysis with a particular emphasis on the axial skeleton and musculoskeletal system, the thorax, abdomen and pelvis.
PSY6208-Introductory placement and case analysis (clinical neuropsychology):This unit extends knowledge of the basic physical principles of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and addresses safety and the protocols and processing methods used to image brain structure and function. The unit will introduce the student to neuroimaging techniques for application to neuroscience research. The purpose of the common sequences used to image brain structure and function will be covered and students will learn how to select the most appropriate imaging protocol for the common sequences from within an evidence - based framework. The unit will enable students to recognise the benefits and limitations of neuroimaging approaches to the characterisation of brain structure and function in health and disease. Students will be introduced to experimental paradigms and analysis approaches used in neuroimaging research. The unit will conclude with an examination of the application of quality assurance and quality control principles to MRI imaging of the brain and CNS.
PSY6209-Intermediate placement and case analysis (clinical neuropsychology):This 3rd year Unit expands upon the knowledge, skills and judgment acquired in year's one and two of the Course through more in-depth study of five themes that are relevant to radiographic practice. Theme 1: Sonographic Practice and Science Sonographic anatomy and pathology of abdominal organs and related structures. Scanning techniques including Doppler ultrasound for the sonographic visualisation of abdominal organs and related structures. Ultrasound artefacts and the bio-effects and bio-hazards of diagnostic ultrasound. Theme 2: Radiographic Practice Ongoing development in general radiography examinations and professional communication to the level of competent practice. The application and impact of ethics, registration and legal principles to radiographic practice. Theme 3: Breast Imaging The scientific principles of breast imaging, instrumentation, positioning methods and radiation protection. Principles of breast ultrasound and localisation techniques. Theme 4: Research and Dosimetric Techniques Scientific principles of radiation dosimetry. Calculating the biological effects of ionising radiation. Applications of dosimetry in radiographic practice. Handling quantitative and qualitative data. Using statistical analyses to understand the relevance of data handling and research to radiographic practice. Theme 5: MRI Practice Contraindications for MRI, emergency situations and screening methods. MRI imaging sequences and methods for MRI examinations of the upper abdomen, pelvis and breast.
PSY6301-Advanced placement and case analysis (clinical psychology):Computed tomography: scientific principles and operational modes. System components and image characteristics. Image reconstruction techniques, summation convolution back-projection. Fourier reconstruction and algebraic and iterative reconstruction methods. Helical/spiral and multislice CT systems. CT artefacts and quality assurance. Principles of CT dosimetry and radiation protection. Clinical CT examinations for the head, chest, abdomen and spine; CT sectional anatomy and imaging pathology. General radiography including contrast, trauma, paediatric and mobile imaging. Digital image processing, computer interfaces, medical image formats, the Dicom standard, image compression and the hospital Picture Archiving and Communication System (PACS).
PSY6302-Advanced placement and case analysis (clinical neuropsychology):This unit delivers theoretical and practical knowledge in abdominal ultrasound that also forms a foundation for subsequent ultrasound studies in RAD3042 and RAD4080. The unit introduces the student to the requisite knowledge required to perform an ultrasound examination of abdominal organs, including the physics of ultrasound and instrumentation, sonographic anatomy and pathophysiology, scanning principles and practice. Students will participate in the scanning of models under supervision to enable them to apply these principles and develop basic practical skills in a simulated clinical environment.
PSYHONS-Final honours psychology:The physics of MRI is presented, with particular application to clinical diagnostic imaging. The unit covers the basic physics of magnetic dipoles and magnetic spin resonance, through to a detailed presentation of the basic gradient and spin echo sequences that are used in medical MRI scanners. The factors that determine the contrast and spatial resolution achievable in MRI are discussed. The FID signal sampling and image reconstruction methods are reviewed, as are the SNR and image artifacts that typically occur in MRI. Patient and MRI staff safety issues are presented. An overview of MRI imaging applications, such as spectroscopic and dynamic imaging is presented.
RAD2007-Medical radiation science: Professional skills 2:Scientific method. The role of mathematical models in science. Principles of experimental and sampling design, data acquisition, analysis and presentation of data. Hypothesis testing and confidence intervals. Relationship between quantitative variables. Communication of scientific information.
RAD2012-Radiographic science and practice 4:Evolution has shaped and continues to shape humans and the world in which we live. Some of the most challenging issues facing society such as the battle of the sexes, war and violence, population growth and even the global obesity epidemic can be understood through the process of evolution. An evolutionary perspective also equips us to address emerging issues such as the manipulation of human behaviour, spread of infectious diseases, the rise of allergies, the ethics of cloning, food security, and the biodiversity crisis. This unit will highlight how an appreciation of evolution can transform our understanding of the human condition, modern society, and the profound global challenges that we are currently facing - enabling us to develop robust and creative solutions for the future.
RAD2061-Radiologic biology 3:Climate change is a key global challenge for modern society. It will affect all natural and human systems and has far-reaching consequences for society. Responding to the effects of climate change will require international and interdisciplinary approaches. This unit provides the scientific background to climate change, and it assesses the environmental and societal impacts, and community and political responses to climate change. Starting from the basic principles and processes that define and govern the Earth's climate, the unit explores how the different spheres on Earth interact to produce the rich past and current variability of climate in space and time. It then highlights how human influences are shaping the future of the Earth's climate. Equipped with the essential scientific background, the unit will then investigate what options humankind has to respond to the economic, ethical and political challenges of climate change, including global and national governance models required to mitigate and adapt to its effects. The unit will provide students with the foundation and knowledge to respond to climate change challenges throughout their career, independent of their specific discipline.
RAD3004-Neuroimaging for neuroscience research:This is the first part of level-one Impact through science core studies of the Bachelor of Science Advanced - Global Challenges (Honours). It consists of two modules, undertaken in parallel: leadership and persuasive communication. Leadership development is undertaken through the adaptive leadership framework using an experiential learning approach. In this module students will focus on distinguishing the role of authority from the activity of leadership and understand what is required to make progress on complex challenges. Students will build persuasive communication skills and leadership presence through a variety of techniques. This unit also has a strong focus on developing teamwork skills through diverse modes. A 'dialogue' evening series will provide opportunities for networking through intimate discussions with leaders from a variety of industries.
RAD3042-Medical imaging science and practice 2:This is the second part of level-one Impact through science core studies of the Bachelor of Science Advanced - Global Challenges (Honours). It consists of two modules, undertaken in parallel: leadership and the big issues of our time. In the leadership module students will continue to develop and apply adaptive leadership tools. The big issues of our time are explored in a module examining how science and policy can impact decision-making.Teamwork is explored through several assignments including students undertaking peer-consultations on leadership challenges they have identified. A 'dialogue' evening series will provide opportunities for networking and intimate discussions with leaders from a variety of industries. Students will build relationships with mentors.
RAD3092-Magnetic resonance imaging (physics and technology):Humans have had an enormous impact on the world's resources to such an extent that our survival is in jeopardy. In this multidisciplinary unit, students will investigate the potential of recent research into science, medicine, engineering, architecture and social science to understand these problems and to ameliorate them - to protect the environment, enhance the quality of life and promote social justice. Students will undertake a group research project related to supporting sustainability of our planet. The projects will be supervised by the appropriate faculty, but students from any faculty can do any project. The aim of the unit is for students to make a difference - to make the world a better place. At the same time, students will learn how to undertake research, and to appreciate approaches to research across the disciplines.
RAD4070-Research in medical imaging:Science and technology are the basis of modern life yet most people do not understand how discoveries are made or commercialised. In SCI2010 you will examine the core elements of modern science by looking back at the people, cultures, events and discoveries that allowed science to emerge and contributed to the establishment of key concepts such as empiricism, scepticism and rationalism. This unit will equip you with skills to assess the validity of scientific information, to distinguish between real science, bad science and pseudoscience. The value of science in solving real world issues, and improving the human condition are discussed using current examples. Students will benefit from critical evaluation of a wide variety of literature, ranging from peer-reviewed scientific publications to web sites promulgating pseudoscientific remedies. These skills will help your analysis and communication of science and other disciplines. You will complete assignments that will help improve your written and verbal communication to a range of audiences including politicians, managers, the general public and your fellow educated specialists. You will uncover and strengthen your own personal and professional ethical standpoint on current issues such as vaccines, the funding of research by multi-national corporations and plagiarism. Together the topics covered in SCI2010 give you a solid foundation on which to forge a professional career whether it is directly related to science or not.
RAD4080-Selected topics in medical imaging:This unit prepares students for scientific research by providing practical and theoretical training in planning, undertaking and documenting scientific research projects. Students will examine the core elements of modern science by looking back at the people, cultures, events and discoveries that allowed science to emerge and contribute to the establishment of key concepts such as empiricism, scepticism and rationalism. This unit will equip students with skills to assess the validity of scientific information, to distinguish between real science, bad science and pseudoscience. The value of science in solving real world issues and improving the human condition are discussed using current examples. Students are exposed to recent advances in current and emerging research areas through journal presentations. Students will complete assignments that will help improve their written and verbal communication to a range of audiences including scientists, politicians, granting agencies, the general public and scientifically literate generalists, and identifies pathways to becoming a scientific researcher. Students are encouraged to submit their scientific literature reviews for publication in Reinvention, a Journal for Undergraduate Research.
RAD4160-Advanced medical imaging:The Impact through science level two units provide an action-learning exploration of the business and social entrepreneurship cycle from concept through to pitching the idea to a panel of experts. The entrepreneurial mindset is developed through a strong focus on group work, critical thinking, persuasive communication and leadership development. Throughout these units, insights into entrepreneurship will be gained by using case study analysis and prominent guest speakers who are thought leaders, entrepreneurs and industry executives. During the Impact through science 2A unit, students will explore the fundamentals of entrepreneurship by focusing on identifying and creating opportunity for new venture, examining business models and financing these ventures. Students will examine the tools used to identify venture opportunities by understanding customer needs, competition and conducting industry and market analysis. Students will develop their understanding of financing the entrepreneurial business by exploring strategies for funding their enterprises and attracting investment.
RAD4500-Multislice CT and evidence based practice:The Impact through science level two units provide an action-learning exploration of the business and social entrepreneurship cycle from concept through to pitching the idea to a panel of experts. The entrepreneurial mindset is developed through a strong focus on group work, critical thinking, persuasive communication and leadership development. Throughout these units, insights into entrepreneurship will be gained by using case study analysis and prominent guest speakers who are thought leaders, entrepreneurs and industry executives. The Impact through science 2B unit concentrates on the development, growth and marketing phase of the entrepreneurial venture. Building upon the skills and knowledge acquired in SCI2501, students will grow their acumen by examining methods used to grow ventures and develop their own concept from the initial idea through to a business plan. Marketing techniques and strategies to ensure a competitive edge in the current market will be explored. Students will work closely with their peers, the unit coordinator and industry mentors to gain critical feedback on their ideas. The unit will conclude with each student using persuasive communication to gain support for their concept through a pitch. During this unit, students will also plan and prepare for their first internship.
RAD4501-MRI imaging and evidence based practice:This unit provides an incubator for students to apply entrepreneurial and intrapreneurial thought and action. Through this rapid pace and real-world environment students will build on skills developed in level one and two of the course to exercise leadership and an entrepreneurial mindset. By creating new products or services students will cultivate an awareness of innovation, adaptability, disruptive thinking, risk taking, failure and the ability to thrive in an environment of ambiguity and uncertainty. Students will work in teams to practice their entrepreneurial skills across a range of sectors such as corporate, non-profits and social initiatives. Students will receive access to a co-working space and support through mentors, advisors, peer coaching and targeted workshops.
RAD4502-Principles of general radiography image interpretation:Impact through science 3B provides the opportunity for students to further cultivate their persuasive communication, leadership and entrepreneurial skills through a self-directed and real-world project. The aim of this extended project is for students to develop a creative solution enabling the application of scientific research to the needs of society. Students will negotiate a project scope with a research scientist within the Science Faculty that directly draws upon their research, meets the aims of the BSc - Global Challenges (Honours) and falls under one of three project themes: 1) A new product or service utilising the scientific research; 2) Closing the gap between science and policy/politics; 3) Science communication to the general public. During the course of this unit students will also be required to submit their final internship project plans.
RAD4503-Magnetic resonance imaging: Physics, instrumentation and safety:This unit is designed to introduce intending scientists to the principles of laboratory and workplace management and their obligations as experts and supervisors. It will cover legislation and the responsibilities of both employers and employees in issues such as occupational health and safety; handling of dangerous goods and the analysis, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials. Emphasis will be placed on the assessment and management of these issues in a laboratory and workplace environment. The subject will be taught by programmed learning material and practical work consisting of assessment and discussion of case studies and workplace excursions.
RAD4504-Magnetic resonance imaging: Musculoskeletal system:Each student enrolled in SCI3790 will undertake an individual science communication task, under supervision, in a discipline related to a major area of study, further developing the themes introduced in SCI2010. Project topics must be approved at the time of enrolment by both the unit coordinator and the project supervisor. Requirements within the project include submission of a detailed project plan, seminar presentation and participation, and delivery of the final communication task, which could take the form of a comprehensive literature review, a scientific evaluation and report, a series of lessons for school students, a community information session, writing information booklets, etc. Students are required to maintain regular contact with their supervisor(s) and the unit coordinator. Attendance at relevant workshops may be specified.
RAD4505-Magnetic resonance imaging: Head, spine abdomen and pelvis:The internship gives Science students the opportunity to apply their university learning to the work place, providing students with experience in tailoring their academic-based learning to the needs of an industry-based partner, and to network with potential employers. This will prepare students for work or professional practice by integrating theoretical knowledge with practice. Students will learn about the process of applying for employment and good workplace practice. The internship will generally be over the summer break and commence in December. It can be taken any time after the completion of level two.
RAD4506-Magnetic resonance imaging: Advanced imaging techniques:In this unit students further develop employability skills through a placement in a school. Each student is required to research, develop, manage and deliver (teach) a science based module that matches the learning outcomes specified to them by their client (supervising teacher). Prior to their school placement, students participate in a series of workshops on: understanding and catering for different learning styles, motivation, team work, goal setting, planning, management, leadership, effective communication and presentation skills, asking the right questions and reflection. While there is an emphasis on how the students can directly apply this knowledge in the short term (during their school placements), they are also required to reflect how they will transfer this learning into their future workplaces.
RAD5105-Pathology for advanced medical imaging practice:In this unit you will undertake a science based industry placement of at least 80 hours, where you will put in practice the knowledge and skills developed in your course. Pre-placement workshops will support your preparation for the placement and develop an understanding of science based professions, the work culture, and the skills and attributes required for the workplace. Preparation for this unit must start in semester one. You are responsible for identifying your own placement and have this approved by the Unit Coordinator prior to the start of the semester. During semester one, employment preparation workshops will be offered, including how to approach potential employers. If you have difficulties with finding a placement you should contact the Unit Coordinator.
RAD5107-Hybrid and molecular imaging:An individual research project in a discipline relating to a major area of study, conducted under supervision. Includes critical literature review, experimental design and data analysis, seminar attendance. Student must maintain regular contact with supervisor(s) and subject coordinator.
RAD5108-Advanced general radiography image interpretation 1:Students undertake a supervised research project in an area of science, and present the results in a seminar.
RAD5109-Advanced general radiography image interpretation 2:Students undertake a supervised research project in an area of science, and present the results in a seminar.
RAD5110-Advanced CT and clinical decision making 1:Students undertake a supervised research project in an area of science, and present the results in a seminar.
RAD5111-Advanced CT and clinical decision making 2:Students undertake honours level coursework in an area of science.
RAD5112-Advanced MRI and clinical decision making 1:Students undertake honours level coursework in an area of science.
RAD5113-Advanced MRI and clinical decision-making 2:Students undertake honours level coursework in an area of science
RAD5201-Emergency image interpretation 1:Students undertake honours level coursework in an area of science.
RAD5202-Emergency image interpretation 2:Working in collaboration with innovative industry partners and the Faculty of Science, students will complete an independent research project. Through this process, students will be connected to industry partners to gain an understanding of the challenge that has been set, the nature of the industry and stakeholder needs. This is the preparatory unit to develop student's theoretical understanding of the industry challenge in preparation for the development of the project plan and commencement of the group based project in SCI4502.
REL101-World Religions:Students will collaboratively design and develop a solution/s to a real world problem identified by innovative industry partners. During this unit students will acquire practical skills in project design and management, negotiation, workplace communication and innovation to harness the skills and knowledge gained through previous impact through science units. The student's professional knowledge and skills will be developed through on-line modules, workshops and industry mentoring. Through this unit, students will gain exposure to professional practice and build relationships by having access to industry partners through the project. The unit will culminate in the presentation of a business case that outlines the solution to the problem presented by industry partners.
SCB110-Cell Structure and Function:Students will undertake a supervised research project. Students will carry out a research project and present the results of their study in both written and oral form. Information about research projects will be available from the course coordinator towards the end of the preceding semester.
SCB120-Plant Structure and Function:This unit provides advanced instruction on experimental design and data analysis and develops skills in critical thinking and examination of the scientific literature. Students will also examine appropriate Occupational Health, Safety and Environmental issues and learn about the ethical requirements associated with research involving humans and animals. As a part of this unit, students will convene and present a research symposium. This unit relates strongly to the Science Graduate Attributes and provides support for students wishing to develop a career in research science.
SCB200-Microbiology 1:This unit comprises a major research program including submission of a thesis. The thesis should embody the results of the candidate's investigation, which demonstrates independence of thought and the candidate's ability to carry out research in that discipline. Minor coursework such as a literature review and oral presentation is specified by the enrolling department.
SCB210-Biological Chemistry:This unit comprises a major research program including submission of a thesis. The thesis should embody the results of the candidate's investigation, which demonstrates independence of thought and the candidate's ability to carry out research in that discipline. Minor coursework such as a literature review and oral presentation is specified by the enrolling department.
SCB220-Genetics and molecular biology:Students will undertake honours level coursework in their relevant discipline, to be advised to the student by the department/school honours coordinator.
SCB230-Regulatory, ethical and legal issues in biotechnology:Students will undertake honours level coursework in their relevant discipline, to be advised to the student by the department/school honours coordinator.
SCB240-Advanced Bioinformatics:This unit comprises a major research program including submission of a thesis. The thesis should embody the results of the candidate's investigation, which demonstrates independence of thought and the candidate's ability to carry out research in that discipline. Minor coursework such as a literature review and oral presentation is specified by the enrolling department.
SCB300-Plant diversity:This unit comprises a major research program including submission of a thesis. The thesis should embody the results of the candidate's investigation, which demonstrates independence of thought and the candidate's ability to carry out research in that discipline. Minor coursework such as a literature review and oral presentation is specified by the enrolling department.
SCB301-Animal diversity:Students will undertake honours level coursework in their relevant discipline, to be advised to the student by the department/school honours coordinator.
SCB303-Ecotoxicology:This unit will engage the history of sculptural practice in relation to the cast object and will look at current exhibitions of contemporary artists that employ casting practices. Students will consider the readymade object, its value, worth and context. The unit will focus on the development of sculptural technologies specific to the cast object. Students will be encouraged to explore various traditional as well as contemporary materials.
SCB304-Molecular Agriculture:This is an introduction to material practices, drawing and construction. Learning how to construct an object starting from a drawing process and translated into a spatial object is the focus. Students develop skills in fabricating an object in both wood and metal. The unit explores the different meanings that materials can generate as a result of their implementation.
SCB305-Ecology:This unit introduces students to the practice and theory of sculpture as a means of contemporary creative expression. It focuses on raising awareness of and providing the means to achieve an initial level of competence within the sculpture discipline, while imparting a sound conceptual and technical basis for continuing study in that discipline. The safe handling of materials and equipment is emphasised as an essential part of all studio practice.
SCB310-Gene Technologies:This unit gives students the opportunity to further develop the ideas concepts, materials and processes begun in the corresponding Sculpture 1A unit. Students will begin to establish an individual and self directed practice within the broad parameters of the sculpture discipline. Methods and materials specific to the sculpture studio discipline will be demonstrated and practiced. Students will be encouraged to develop appropriate links between these methods and other means of creative self-expression. Set projects will require students to develop technical skills hand in hand with their understanding of concepts of current relevance.
SCB320-Advanced Bioinformatics:This unit extends the introduction to the practice and theory of sculpture as a means of contemporary creative expression. It adds to the focus on raising awareness of and providing the means to achieve an initial level of competence within the sculpture discipline, while imparting a sound conceptual and technical basis for continuing study in that discipline. The safe handling of materials and equipment is emphasised as an essential part of all studio practice.
SCB330-Advanced Immunology and Cell Technology:This unit gives students the opportunity to further develop the ideas concepts, materials and processes begun in Sculpture 2A unit. Students will extend the establishment of an individual and self directed practice within the broad parameters of the sculpture discipline. Methods and materials specific to the sculpture discipline will be demonstrated and practiced. Students will be encouraged to develop further appropriate links between these methods and other means of creative self-expression. Set projects will require students to develop technical skills hand in hand with their understanding of concepts of current relevance.
SCB340-Functional Genomics and Proteomics:This unit will explore advanced moulding and casting processes where students will learn casting processes and metal finishing techniques in materials such as bronze, aluminium, plaster, concrete and other materials. The unit looks at contemporary artists who employ casting processes and addresses the different conceptual frameworks for a range of casting outcomes.
SCC100-Chemistry of Materials 1:This unit will introduce a broad range of sculptural and installation approaches that artists employ when responding to different spatial contexts. Students will explore different genres of public art from a sculptural perspective and will respond to a choice of sites on campus. Students will explore and articulate different processes to achieve their ideas and present their proposal for individual and group feedback.
SCC200-Chemistry of Materials 2:This Sculpture 3A unit provides a rigorous program to broaden students' awareness of concepts and techniques across a range of approaches, and encourages them to seek appropriate solutions. Continued research and investigation of materials and processes fosters the acquisition of technical language, and influences appropriate choices to realise concepts within the context of a developing personal visual language. Set projects still occur but the emphasis is on self-motivated approaches. Teaching methods therefore tend to concentrate on individual tuition and group critique. Emphasis is placed on students' continued capacity to critically assess their own work as well as that of their peers.
SCC210-Instrumental and Environmental Analysis:In the Sculpture 4A unit students become increasingly responsible for the delivery of their major study program, with emphasis placed on independent investigation, and the development of the creative and expressive potential inherent in students' work. This, combined with staff consultation, starts to determine students' focuses for future sculpture studio work. The emphasis shifts away from set projects towards self-motivated practice and research through which students articulate their conceptual and expressive strengths. Studio practice is still exploratory but with better grasp of theoretical issues relevant to students' practices.
SCE210-The Changing Environment:This Sculpture 3B unit extends the rigorous program to broaden students' awareness of concepts and techniques across a range of approaches, and further encourage them to seek appropriate solutions. Continued research and investigation of materials and processes fosters the acquisition of technical language, and influences appropriate choices to realise concepts within the context of a developing personal visual language. The emphasis is more on self-motivated approaches than on set projects. Teaching methods therefore tend to concentrate on individual tuition and group critique.
SCI100-Introduction to Energy Studies:In this Sculpture 4B unit students become more responsible for the delivery of their major study program, with emphasis placed on increasingly independent investigation, and the further development of the creative and expressive potential inherent in students' work. This, combined with staff consultation, continues to determine students' focuses for future Sculpture studio work. Self-motivated practice and research through which students articulate their conceptual and expressive strengths is increasingly utilised. Studio practice is less exploratory and with better grasp of theoretical issues relevant to students' practices.
SCI1020-Introduction to statistical reasoning:This level 3 sculpture unit finely hones the skills acquired over the previous two years. At this stage of the course, students should demonstrate a high level of technical competence, facilitating work in their chosen field. Imagination combined with advanced conceptual lucidity, a prowess and innovation in material manipulation should be manifest at this stage of students' practice. Students develop an individual program in conjunction with the lecturer that reflects their personal direction and evolving sculpture practice. The program focuses on clear articulation of concepts.
SCI1200-Humans, evolution and modern society:This unit is the culmination of the sculpture undergraduate program, and provides a stimulating and supportive environment. Students continue to work autonomously within an individually approved program of study as lecturers encourage the self-motivation, self-appraisal and professional responsibility required of the practising artist. A coordinator supervises the program and gives guidance as it is required and at the request of the students.
SCI13-Foundations of Science: Life and the Universe:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
SCI1300-Climate change: From science to society:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
SCI140-Introduction to Brain Behaviour and Evolution:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
SCI1400-From Galileo to GPS: How astronomy shapes our lives:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
SCI1501-Impact through science 1A:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
SCI1502-Impact through science 1B:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
SCI16-General Physics (Previously Introduction to Physics):This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
SCI18-Fundamentals of Chemistry (Previously: Introduction to Chemistry):This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
SCI1800-The sustainable planet:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
SCI19-Principles of Physics:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
SCI2010-Scientific practice and communication:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
SCI2015-Scientific practice and communication (advanced):This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
SCI2501-Impact through science 2A:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
SCI2502-Impact through science 2B:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
SCI3501-Impact through science 3A:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
SCI3502-Impact through science 3B:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
SCI3716-Laboratory and workplace management:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
SCI3790-Science in action communication project:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
SCI3800-Science internship:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
SCI3910-Schools science project:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
SCI3920-Science industry placement:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
SCI3930-Career skills for scientists:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
SCI3990-Science in action research project:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
SCI4100-Science honours project:This unit is used by the faculty to enrol students undertaking outbound exchange studies at a host institution. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES. The faculty will manage the enrolment of students undertaking an outbound exchange program to ensure fees and credit are processed accurately.
SCM3251-Financial mathematics:This unit addresses scientific and technical principles of diagnostic ultrasound and the scanning modes. The fundamentals of ultrasound transducers, continuous-wave and pulse-wave high frequency sound, A-mode, M-mode and B-mode diagnostic ultrasound scanning, the Doppler effect, spectral Doppler, colour and power Doppler and associated instrumentation are introduced. Recent developments in harmonic imaging and the use of contrast agents are presented. Safety issues are also covered including an understanding of bio-effects and bio-hazards. Students will develop skills in the recognition of image artefacts, the implementation of a quality assurance program and in optimising image quality.
SCM5100-MSc prelim research project:This unit initially explores the main stages of embryonic development and then addresses specific systems such as the central nervous system, gastrointestinal tract and the genitourinary system in more detail. The second major component addresses the gross, regional and sectional anatomy of the thyroid, abdomen and pelvis, the vascular, musculoskeletal, hepatobiliary and genitourinary systems along with examples of pathophysiology relevant to medical ultrasound. A key component throughout this unit is the development of image evaluation skills in relation to the cross-sectional, coronal and sagittal display of these structures and their surrounding regional anatomy.
SCM5200-MSc prelim coursework:The unit aims to facilitate the process of research in medical ultrasound. Firstly, the unit will extend the knowledge and understanding of research methodology gained in the research methods unit and additionally focus attention upon a range of practical, technical and management issues associated with the conduct of scientific research. The unit will facilitate student access to academics or clinicians offering projects and who will support the student during all stages of the inquiry process.
SEM332-Greenhouse Science and Policy:Descriptive statistics, scatter plots, correlation, line of best fit. Elementary probability theory. Confidence intervals and hypothesis tests using normal, t and binomial distributions. Use of computer software. Formal treatment of statistical analyses and the role of probability in statistical inference.
SRU0001-Applied sciences postgraduate research unit:This unit is the preparation for submission of the honours thesis of 10,000 words (minimum length). The dissertation is the final version of the research project undertaken by the student during the honours programme. The research project involves addressing a meaningful research question and selecting an appropriate method that draws on quantitative and qualitative data collection and analysis to gather the findings that complete the research project. The honours thesis is examined by a member of the academic staff (not the supervisor) and a second examiner within the Department of Social Work.
SRU0002-Biological sciences postgraduate research unit:This unit introduces students to the history and evolution of the international human rights regime, current debates about human rights locally, nationally and internationally, as well as ethical codes and decision-making processes as they apply to social work practice. The unit provides opportunities for students to explore the foundations of the Australian legal system in a human rights framework and the legal contexts within which social workers practice. The unit addresses concepts of moral philosophy underpinning the AASW Code of Ethics and explores the foundations of ethical decision-making. In line with Monash University's commitment to human rights and social justice, the unit has an overarching human rights approach, within which legal and ethical practice occurs.
SRU0003-Chemistry postgraduate research unit:This unit uses a range of case studies to assist the student in working through the complex issues faced by many social work clients. The unit asks the students to reflect on their knowledge and theory to draw upon appropriate assessment and intervention techniques for a range of social work situation.
SRU0004-Research in earth sciences:This unit uses a range of case studies to assist the student in working through the complex issues faced by many social work clients. The unit asks the students to reflect on their knowledge and theory to draw upon appropriate assessment and intervention techniques for a range of social work situations.
SRU0005-Mathematics and statistics postgraduate research unit:This unit is structured to assist students in Planning and preparing for Supervised Professional Practice 2 (final Placement). The unit consists of 6 preplacement tutorial/briefings. Students complete Faculty and Departmental compliance requirements in this unit in order to proceed to a supervised professional practice placement. The unit is a prerequisite for SWK 4560
SRU0006-Physics postgraduate research unit:This unit requires students to work in groups, develop a relationship with a community group or community organisation and develop a group based project. The unit has a focus on the theory and practice of groupwork, including the historical development of this social work method, planning and implementing a groupwork program, communication in groups, group leadership and facilitation and managing group dynamics. Students will also learn to establish and negotiate relationships with organisational personnel in the field, analyse and manage group processes and successfully complete a 'real-world' group project. The unit will introduce students to community engagement, processes of project management and practice challenges in the field.
SRU0012-Geography and environmental science postgraduate research unit:This unit provides an ecological approach to the understanding of contemporary health and mental health concerns that impact on the individuals and families who come to the attention of social work. The subject incorporates weekly direct practice skills seminars to develop key skills for effective social work practice in the health and mental health fields. Social Work interfaces with a range of clients and practice contexts in community health and mental health, in disability, in drug and alcohol settings, in rural and regional settings.
SRU0013-Accident Research Centre postgraduate research unit:Students will be introduced to the specific role of social work in social policy analysis, practice and advocacy. Areas covered will include key theories in social policy, understanding the link between social policy and the goals and values of social work, ideological critiques of the welfare state and their implications for particular policy areas, the role of lobby groups in social policy debates, and the link between local and global welfare trends.
SRU0014-Science postgraduate research unit:Honours students will be introduced to the specific role of social work in social policy analysis, practice and advocacy. Areas covered will include key theories in social policy, understanding the link between social policy and the goals and values of social work, ideological critiques of the welfare state and their implications for particular policy areas, the role of lobby groups in social policy debates, and the link between local and global welfare trends.
SRU0015-Research in atmospheric sciences:Supervised Professional Practice 2 enables students to operationalise the professional social work role. The unit comprises 500 hours of supervised professional practice in the field. There is an opportunity to review skills and to facilitate the integration of theory and practice through contact with the University Contact (liaison) allocated to the student and supervisor while on placement.
SRU0016-Astronomy and astrophysics postgraduate research unit:This unit is structured to assist students in Planning and preparing for Supervised Professional Practice 1 (first Placement). The unit consists of 6 preplacement tutorial/briefings. Students complete Faculty and Departmental compliance requirements in this unit in order to proceed to a supervised professional practice placement. The unit is a prerequisite for SWM5103
SRU0017-Research in geographic information systems:This unit is structured to assist students in Planning and preparing for Supervised Professional Practice 2 (final Placement). The unit consists of 6 preplacement tutorial/briefings. Students complete Faculty and Departmental compliance requirements in this unit in order to proceed to a supervised professional practice placement. The unit is a prerequisite for SWM5108
SRU0018-Research in sustainability and environment:This unit offers an overview of the history and contemporary context of social work practice within a framework of understanding the connection between social issues, policy development and strategies for sustainable change at both local and global levels. The unit is underpinned by notions of social justice and human rights and offers a preview of topics that will be studied in greater depth in subsequent units within the course.
SRU0019-Applied mathematics and computational sciences postgraduate research unit:This unit introduces students to the history and evolution of the international human rights regime, current debates about human rights locally, nationally and internationally, as well as ethical codes and decision-making processes as they apply to social work practice. The unit provides opportunities for students to explore the foundations of the Australian legal system in a human rights framework and the legal contexts within which social workers practice. The unit addresses concepts of moral philosophy underpinning the AASW Code of Ethics and explores the foundations of ethical decision-making. In line with Monash University's commitment to human rights and social justice, the unit has an overarching human rights approach, within which legal and ethical practice occurs.
STA10003-Foundations of Statistics:This unit concentrates on the artist's body in art, including photography, performance, painting, sculpture, video and multi-media art. It will consider examples from the history of 20th century art but will focus primarily on art practice since 1960. The unit will deal with issues of identity, gender, sexuality and difference, drawing on performative theories of subjectivity. It will look closely at experimental art practices and how these practices have sought to close the gap between art and life; from the Happenings of the 1960s, through the body art of the 1960s and 70s, to relational aesthetics, and flash mob performance works in the 2000s. The unit will investigate live action in contrast to represented action, and will consider the live action and its remediation in video, digital art and film.
STA1010-Statistical methods for science:Looking across a broad range of mediums, including painting, objects, post-object and conceptual art, performance, experimental cinema, video art, actions, interventions, documents and writings, students will examine work from the Americas, Japan, Europe and Australia from the Post-War period through to the late 20th century. The influence of theory and political ideology on practice will be considered, as well as the challenge to boundaries, such as high and low art.
STA102-Foundations of Statistics:This subject will chart and critically analyse transformations in international art and curatorial practice since the end of the 1980s through a case-study model that is both chronological and thematic. Various modes of recent art practice will be explored: from postcolonial performance to the boom in Asian art, and from art as fashion to the development of the curator as a kind of artist and the exhibition as an art work. Students taking this course will also be introduced to the major discourses and writers in art theory since 1989, and the role of art within its broader social and cultural contexts.
STA20005-Survey Research Methods:This unit is a study of visual practices within Australia from colonisation to contemporary contexts. The unit will address issues of representation, nationalism and nationhood, multiculturalism, ethnicity, aboriginalty and gender. The position of the Australian artists in negotiating cultural identity is a central concern. Indigenous artistic practices and urban aboriginal and urban aboriginal art will be considered, as well as post-modern visual and cirtical practices that cut across boundaries and explore new modes of representation.
STA20006-Analysis of Variance and Regression:This unit looks at key moments in history in which art and artists have actively strived to generate social change. With a particular focus on the late 20th and 21st centuries, Art and Social Change critically explores the dynamic sites in which art, life and activism intersect. Diverse contexts and artistic practices will be examined. Topics include the use of art in political propaganda, culture jamming, identity politics, indigenous art and politics, the environment, art and the impact of global terrorism, and critiques of the art world itself. These thematic weekly study topics will be complimented by discussions of theory from key writers and theorists in the field.
STA20007-Multivariate Statistics:On the successful completion of this course students will be able to identify and explain pivotal examples of art and architecture from the Gothic, Baroque, and Jugendstil periods; identify and describe major locations associated with particular art, architectural and cultural developments; critically comment on historic works; participate in critical evaluation of the styles, concepts, cultural contents and values of selected examples of art and architecture; recognise and understand how art, architecture, space and cities work as documents of events; and perceive and experience the deeper level of art and architecture.
STA210-Analysis of Variance:The unit will trace the development of the visual culture of Italy from Roman times to the Eighteenth century. Particular emphasis will be placed on four especially significant periods: Roman, Medieval, Renaissance and Baroque. The unit will concentrate on Italian artistic development and on the enduring and dominant role of Italian art and culture in the West. The emphasis will be on individuals and cities that have made a profound impact on and helped to shape the cultural identity of Italy. A major thematic focus will be the exploration of the communication of ideas, values and beliefs via the tangible visual evidence of art, architecture and urban fabric.
STA2216-Data analysis for science:Using a major international exhibition of contemporary art as an example, the historic, cultural and conceptual sources of the work will be examined. These will be identified and placed in the contexts in which they evolved, demonstrating how the context and the work have jointly generated meaning. The unit thus explores the synergies which inspire the creation of contemporary art. Original art work will be used, taking advantages of field work opportunities
STA310-Multivariate Statistics:This unit explores the dynamic place of the moving image in modern and contemporary art. The moving image here refers predominantly to light-based media, especially film, video and new media technologies. The arrival of the moving image in contemporary art presents a serious challenge to our understanding of the traditional media and institutions of film, painting and sculpture. Art and the Moving Image explores the cause, the motivation, and the aesthetic, social and political significance of this paradigm shift.
STA60001-Statistical Practice 1:This unit focuses on the representation, design, experience and interpretation of space in Australia and abroad. Concepts of space and place are central to any understanding of modern society and culture and are at the forefront of contemporary scholarship and thought in several disciplines. This unit considers the aesthetics, politics and ethics of a wide range of spatial environments, discourses and encounters, both interior and exterior, public and private, urban and landscape, real and virtual.
STA60003-Basic Statistical Computing:Product designs from local and international manufacturers are analysed through advertising and imaginary narratives of their use. The looks and the ecological and the ethical dimensions of such objects are discussed in a critical spirit. Rather than cultivate strict objectivity and disinterested inquiry, the subject encourages the design critic to take up an 'interested' position which is necessary for the creation of visionary designs of consumer goods.
STA60004-Research Design:The development of furniture and interiors in various epochs, ranging from Egypt to postmodernism, with frequent references to non-European cultures. Comparisons are made between such developments and the other arts, including literature and music.
STA60005-Statistical Practice 2:Philosophical issues concerned with the ritual and ideological values of objects and the design ethos 'proper' to them. The difference in habit between tensile members and compressive members in architecture compared to the respective ornamental expressions. Ornament and the modes of construction in timber, textile, clay and glass. Textual recommendations of theorists from antiquity to the twentieth century are judged for their internal logic, cultural implications and acceptability in the context of contemporary theory.
STA70002-Multivariate Statistics:All forms of media, as powerful and persuasive communicators of ideas, beliefs and stereotypes in our contemporary world, will be analysed. Answers will be sought to many questions including: Who speaks? Who listens? Who is silenced? Who profits? What are the social, environmental and ethical responsibilities of visual communicators? Is it permissible to appropriate other visual practitioners' images and ideas? What are the points of connection and divergence between popular culture and contemporary art? Semiotics, structuralist and post-structuralist theories will be used in an attempt to decode and interpret images.
STA70003-Further Statistical Computing:This unit investigates the visual and theoretical languages of design in relation to a number of key critical issues. It focuses on issues including the engagement of works of design with society, consumerism, gender, politics, and the environment. The role of the designer in responding to aesthetic and social challenges is also considered. Students will continue to develop a range of approaches to understanding works of design and related issues while also refining the broader critical and analytical skills necessary to their disciplines. The Semester 1 program covers material suited to Industrial Design and Interior Architecture, and the Semester 2 program focuses on Visual Communication and Multimedia.
STA70004-Forecasting:The unit will consider the ways in which the camera contributed to new ways of seeing in the nineteenth century. The unit will investigate the concept of analogue reproduction, especially photography's promise to represent the 'real' world, and consider practices in which the real is consistently manipulated. Photography will be considered across a range of disciplines: ethnographic and anthropological photographs; documentary photography; photography as a diagnostic tool in the world of medicine and the use of photography by the legal system. Finally, the unit will address the changes in the production and circulation of images evident in digital modes of reproduction.
STA70005-Survey Sampling:This unit will address selected aspects of the Baroque aesthetic in both 17th/18th century and contemporary visual practice and theory. Emphasis will be given to key concepts including theatricality and excess, spectacle, sensation, and the intensification of emotional expression and response, and to central topics, especially religion, sexuality and death. Following substantial attention to major steps in the historical development from Caravaggio and Bernini to Rembrandt and Tiepolo, the focus will shift to the recent resurgance of "Neo-Baroque" in both traditional and new visual media, together with relevant theoretical responses.
STA80003-Structural Equation Modelling:This unit explores the related practices of art criticism and curatorship and their role in communicating art to its publics. It offers a brief history of criticism/curatorship and critical/curatorial approaches, an assessment of reviews, including those of local exhibitions in Melbourne, and considerations of the theoretical underpinnings of critical reception. Students are invited to explore how they might themselves participate in the production of visual critique in the form of exhibition reviews, catalogue essays, curatorial statements, artist statements and so forth.
STA80004-Advanced Topics in Regression:This unit provides students with an opportunity to focus specifically on contemporary Australian art and understand Australia's place within the international art world. As well as looking at iconic, controversial and innovative examples of Australian art practice from the late 20th and early 21st centuries, students will analyse the contexts for Australian art at local, national and global levels. Australian art will be examined in the contexts of the centre-periphery debates, Australia's role in international art events, the rise of new museological practice, artist run spaces and guerrilla art events. This unit is therefore ideal for those interested in Australian art and visual culture either as an observer or practitioner.
STA80005-Statistical Marketing Tools:This unit examines the medium and its materiality across a range of visual art practices including: painting, sculpture, installation, photography, video, multi-media, and performance art. It considers trans-disciplinary practices and contextualization in place, space and time. It is a unit that offers in-depth analysis by concentrating on case studies. It introduces students to the critical dialogue around the medium and develops critical dialogue around the medium and its materiality.
STA80006-Using R for Statistical Analysis:This unit concentrates on the artist's body in art, including photography, performance, painting, sculpture, video and multi-media art. It will consider examples from the history of 20th century art but will focus primarily on art practice since 1960. The unit will deal with issues of identity, gender, sexuality and difference, drawing on performative theories of subjectivity. It will look closely at experimental art practices and how these practices have sought to close the gap between art and life; from the Happenings of the 1960s, through the body art of the 1960s and 70s, to relational aesthetics, and flash mob performance works in the 2000s. The unit will investigate live action in contrast to represented action, and will consider the live action and its remediation in video, digital art and film.
STA80007-Bayesian Statistics:Looking across a broad range of mediums, including painting, objects, post-object and conceptual art, performance, experimental cinema, video art, actions, interventions, documents and writings, students will examine work from the Americas, Japan, Europe and Australia from the Post-War period through to the late 20th century. The influence of theory and political ideology on practice will be considered, as well as the challenge to boundaries, such as high and low art.
STA80008-Scale Development and Evaluation:This subject will chart and critically analyse transformations in international art and curatorial practice since the end of the 1980s through a case-study model that is both chronological and thematic. Various modes of recent art practice will be explored: from postcolonial performance to the boom in Asian art, and from art as fashion to the development of the curator as a kind of artist and the exhibition as an art work. Students taking this course will also be introduced to the major discourses and writers in art theory since 1989, and the role of art within its broader social and cultural contexts.
STA80009-Statistical Consulting:A 'survey' of visual arts in Australia from colonisation to contemporary contexts. Historical and social perspectives in the development of painting, sculpture, printmaking, photography and film, architecture and design. Representation and subjectivity, cultural identity, nationalism and nationhood, ethnicity and gender. Issues of mainstream and marginality; notions of the 'centre' and regionalism, Australia's relationship to Europe and European art generally, and the notion of landscape as a shaper of national identity.
STAGC2216-Data analysis for science:This unit looks at key moments in history in which art and artists have actively strived to generate social change. With a particular focus on the late 20th and 21st centuries, Art and Social Change critically explores the dynamic sites in which art, life and activism intersect. Diverse contexts and artistic practices will be examined. Topics include the use of art in political propaganda, culture jamming, identity politics, indigenous art and politics, the environment, art and the impact of global terrorism, and critiques of the art world itself. These thematic weekly study topics will be complimented by discussions of theory from key writers and theorists in the field.
TRC2001-Introduction to systems engineering:This unit is the fourth in the Visual Practices sequence that provides a rigorous encounter with a range of contemporary art practices both practical and professional. It instructs students in core knowledge and issues in the visual arts and the arts industry. The unit workshop program continues to offer a selection of approaches to conceptual and material art practice whilst providing opportunities to develop curatorial, critical writing and administrative skills. Students continue to select from a range of workshops which enable them to develop an area of expertise within the broad contemporary art field. Topics include a range of contemporary art approaches as well as curatorial practice, arts writing and education. Students are required to further investigate and develop individual and collaborative solutions to a series of projects. Teaching methodology involves critical dialogue, class discussion and evaluation. Safe and sustainable approaches to fabrication techniques and materials are promoted as core values in the unit.
TRC2200-Thermo-fluids and power systems:Research Practices Advanced is a core unit in the Visual Arts sequence, and is the first of the two 2nd year units. This unit is a practice driven, workshop based unit which develops a variety of methodologies and their contribution to a research practice in visual culture. It is designed to further develop, challenge and expand how students think about making artwork and to synthesise research interests, building on VPR1113. A series of individual and collaborative exercises and projects are presented to extend and further foster creative research skills and consolidate students' material skills. The main emphasis of this class is to demonstrate how thinking operates through making. Fabrication processes in the workshop can be in any medium from across two- and/or three-dimensional works, to sound and performance. The aim of these exercises is to further extend each student's capacity for production, creating a pool of ideas, strategies, forms and processes for students to draw on and develop as they progress through the course. Teaching methodology involves critical dialogue, classroom discussion and peer review. This unit presents a broad range of approaches to contemporary art and its institutions for those wishing to work in the arts industry as artists, curators, arts writers, educators or practitioners. Research Practices encourages an experimental approach to conceptual, material and public outcomes. Safe and sustainable approaches to fabrication and materials are core values in the unit.
TRC2201-Mechanics:This is a core unit in the Visual Arts and is second of the two 2nd year units. The unit provides students with a broad range of approaches to cultural production for those wishing to work in the visual arts industry across a diverse range of professional platforms. This unit introduces students to various professional processes and outcomes that contemporary visual artists engage and exhibit in. The workshop-driven classes incorporate theoretical and historical perspectives on these gallery-based modes. This unit introduces various steps required to make art public from: studio-based processes; the engagement of critical feedback; administrative processes associated with gallery-based exhibition; installing an artwork; and contextualising the artwork in a considered theoretical and curatorial framework. The workshop program facilitates a support structure for the development and consolidation of experimental approaches to conceptual and material outcomes of burgeoning research interests. Students are required to investigate and develop individual and collaborative solutions to a series of creative public outcomes. Teaching methodology involves lectures, fieldtrips, critical dialogue, class discussion and peer review. Safe and sustainable approaches to fabrication techniques and materials are promoted as core values in the unit.
TRC3000-Mechatronics project 2:This unit is the fifth in the Visual Practices sequence. In this unit students will focus on their chosen areas of interest reflected in their choice of workshops. Topics will include curatorship, arts writing and a range of contemporary art approaches. A high degree of independence, combined with advanced conceptual lucidity and prowess in the development of curatorial, collective and individual practices should be evident at this stage. Students develop individual programs in conjunction with the lecturers that reflect their personal direction and evolving practice, either curatorial, theoretical or practical.
TRC3200-Dynamical systems:This unit is the last and culminating unit in the Visual Practices sequence. In this unit students will focus on their chosen areas of interest reflected in their choice of workshops. Topics will include curatorship, arts writing and a range of contemporary art approaches. A high degree of independence, combined with advanced conceptual lucidity and prowess in the development of curatorial, collective and individual practices should be evident at this stage. Students develop final individual programs in conjunction with the lecturers that reflect their personal direction and evolving practice, that provide a bridge to the broader arts industry.
TRC3500-Sensors and artificial perception:This is a core unit in the Visual Arts sequence and is first of the two 3rd year units. The unit provides students with an advanced perspective on the various modes of publication available to cultural practitioners engaged in Visual Art. This unit gives students an opportunity to incorporate theoretical frameworks that reflect and expand upon a breadth of fields that include education, business, information technology or the liberal arts into their production of visual culture. This unit asks students to develop self-directed strategies that extend upon traditional gallery based exhibition modes. These modes might include: artists' books, editioned objects; site-based research and exhibiting; digital broadcast; collaborative, social and/or performative processes; curatorial contexts; and creative arts writing. The workshop program encourages an experimental and critical approach to conceptual and material outcomes whilst providing opportunities to cultivate curatorial, critical writing and administrative skills. Students are required to initiate individual and collaborative solutions to a series of creative public outcomes. Teaching methodology involves lectures, fieldtrips, critical dialogue, class discussion and peer-review. Safe and sustainable approaches to fabrication techniques and materials are promoted as core values in the unit.
TRC3600-Modelling and control:This unit is the last and culminating unit in the Visual Practices sequence and is second of the two 3rd year units. In this unit emphasis is placed on independent cultural research and its relation to a broader collaborative or group context in the public realm. Students develop a creative, expressive and critical project that utilises advanced conceptualisation and material manipulation, engaging with the artwork as part of a chain of production, reception, distribution and publics. Students develop individual programs in conjunction with the lecturers that reflect their evolving cultural practice and professional direction. The program focuses on clear articulation of concepts and their publication in the written form as a supplement to the student's Visual Practice. Detailed analysis and discussion of students' work takes place primarily through personal tuition with lecturers, peer-based critique and experimenting with various modes of public presentation. This unit provides a stimulating and supportive environment through the introduction of a supervised studio and bridges this to independent professional practice in the broader arts arena. This unit contextualises individual practice within various public platforms that require different modes of group and/or collaborative modes of engagement. The work produced culminates in an end of year exhibition of a professional standard, preparing students for entry into the professional world as cultural producer in broad array of Visual Arts disciplines, or the pursuit of further studies at a higher level.
TRC3801-Mechatronics and manufacturing:The minor thesis should be on a topic chosen by the student and approved by the department by the end of the previous year. Students will be expected to commence work during the long vacation. The thesis will be written under supervision, and students will be expected to meet regularly with their supervisors. The thesis must be submitted in two typed copies, suitably bound, no later than the final day of the Second Semester (July).
TRC4000-Mechatronics final year project 1:The minor thesis should be on a topic chosen by the student and approved by the department by the end of the previous year. Students will be expected to commence work during the long vacation. The thesis will be written under supervision, and students will be expected to meet regularly with their supervisors. The thesis must be submitted in two typed copies, suitably bound, no later than the final day of the Second Semester (July).
TRC4001-Mechatronics final year project 2:This unit is designed to equip honours students with critical and theoretical skills appropriate to the study of art history and visual culture at an advanced level. Topics to be considered will include theories of the image, representation and meaning, the operation of ideology, especially in relation to race and gender, social theories (including Marxist and neo-Marxist accounts), applications of psychoanalysis to the visual field, postmodernism and its critiques, cyberculture, and recent theorisations of visual culture.
TRC4002-Professional practice:The unit will consider the ways in which contemporary artists and theorists have attempted to reform the structure of the art institution. Alternative art practices and spaces in Australia will be considered with reference to events in Europe and America. Marxist and feminist initiatives will be analysed in detail. The concept of the 'global village,' will be examined and the successes and failures of the different initiatives will be studied in relation to contemporary theories and arts policy in Australia.
TRC4100-Bio-interfacing devices:This unit is based on a practice of internships for students in cultural institutions. It is designed to provide students with first hand experience of working within the culture industry while introducing them to the types of research customarily undertaken in such institutions. After several preliminary seminars, students will be assigned to a museum/ gallery in which they will work for two days per week, over a period of nine weeks, under the direction of the relevant director. They will undertake a research project of specific relevance to the cultural institution.
TRC4800-Robotics:The recurring issues of regionalism and internationalism will be addressed, as will interpretations of Australia as the site of international congruence and influence. The unit will move from discussion of the American influence of The Field exhibition of 1968 to the 'pluralism' of the 1970s: minimal art, performance art and feminism. The focus on the 1980s and 1990s will address some of the following: neo-expressionism, appropriation, nomadology, aboriginality, theoretical issues and the current status of Australian art, including recent developments in abstraction, installation, gay art and 'angry women.'
TRC4900-Real time embedded systems:This unit is used by the Monash University Accident Research Centre and/or Monash Institute of Graduate Research to enrol students undertaking Higher Degrees by Research. Students will not be able to enrol in this unit via WES.
